stam spices up man utd encounter ac milan defender jaap stam says manchester united  know they made a mistake  by selling him in 2001.  the sides meet at old trafford in the champions league game on wednesday and the 32-year-old s dutchman s presence is sure to add spice to the fixture.  united made a mistake in selling me   stam told uefa s champions magazine.  i was settled at manchester united  but they wanted to sell me. if a club want to sell you  there is nothing you can do. you can be sold like cattle.  sir alex ferguson surprised the football world - and stam - by selling the dutchman to lazio for £16.5m in august 2001. the decision came shortly after stam claimed in his autobiography that ferguson had tapped him up when he was at psv eindhoven. but ferguson insisted he sold the defender because the transfer fee was too good to refuse for a player past his prime. the affair still rankles with the dutchman.   i was settled at manchester united  i had even just ordered a new kitchen  but they wanted to sell me   he said.  in what other industry can a good employee be ushered out the door against their wishes   of course  you can refuse to go  but then the club have the power to put you on the bench. i don t agree that players control the game.  there have been opportunities to confront them in the newspapers  but i have turned them down. what s the point    wednesday s game at old trafford will provide an intriguing confrontation between united s young attackers wayne rooney and cristiano ronaldo and milan s veteran defence of stam  paolo maldini  cafu and alessandro costacurta. stam says rooney s teenage stardom is in stark contract to his own start in the game.  we can t all be wayne rooneys - at his age i was training to be an electrician and thought my chance of becoming a professional footballer had gone   he said.  starting late can be a good thing. some kids who start early get bored.  i had my youth - having fun  drinking beers  blowing up milk cannisters. it sounds strange but it s a tradition where i grew up in kampen - and i had done all the things i wanted to do.
yukos unit buyer faces loan claim the owners of embattled russian oil giant yukos are to ask the buyer of its former production unit to pay back a $900m (£479m) loan.  state-owned rosneft bought the yugansk unit for $9.3bn in a sale forced by russia to part settle a $27.5bn tax claim against yukos. yukos  owner menatep group says it will ask rosneft to repay a loan that yugansk had secured on its assets. rosneft already faces a similar $540m repayment demand from foreign banks. legal experts said rosneft s purchase of yugansk would include such obligations.  the pledged assets are with rosneft  so it will have to pay real money to the creditors to avoid seizure of yugansk assets   said moscow-based us lawyer jamie firestone  who is not connected to the case. menatep group s managing director tim osborne told the reuters news agency:  if they default  we will fight them where the rule of law exists under the international arbitration clauses of the credit.   rosneft officials were unavailable for comment. but the company has said it intends to take action against menatep to recover some of the tax claims and debts owed by yugansk. yukos had filed for bankruptcy protection in a us court in an attempt to prevent the forced sale of its main production arm. the sale went ahead in december and yugansk was sold to a little-known shell company which in turn was bought by rosneft. yukos claims its downfall was punishment for the political ambitions of its founder mikhail khodorkovsky and has vowed to sue any participant in the sale.
tories attack eu asylum moves david blunkett has been accused of using the  politics of confusion  to disguise new eu immigration measures.  tory spokesman david davis told mps the uk was losing its power of veto over who was allowed to come to britain. the eu has opted to adopt qualified majority voting in this area - previously measures needed unanimous agreement from all member states. mr blunkett told mps the uk would still be able to reject proposals on immigration it did not agree with.  he argued closer co-operation with europe over asylum and immigration was crucial to controlling the flow of people into the uk.  if we don t like what other eu countries do on immigration and nationality we have the right to opt-in or out to suit the british people   he said. the home secretary was responding to an emergency question from his tory opposite number mr davis.  the government is employing the politics of confusion - i think  deliberately   argued mr davis.  by confusing the country it hopes no one will notice the disappearance of the asylum and immigration veto.  on monday tony blair insisted closer co-operation did not mean losing control of british borders. he said an enlarged 25-member eu needs a streamlined decision making process. mr davis said once britain had opted into policies then it could not opt out - leaving the uk open to unfavourable interpretations of what those policies actually meant.  he accused the government of being  pathetic  when it came to its efforts over immigration and asylum and of  surrendering  on the issue. and he asked why the government was agreeing to the measure on asylum and immigration now when the whole issue was part of the eu constitution  which voters in the uk had been promised a referendum over. mr blair told his monthly news conference britain had the  best of both worlds  and would keep the veto.  there is no question of britain giving up our veto on our border controls   he said.  with the treaty of amsterdam seven years ago  we secured the absolute right to opt in to any of the asylum and immigration provisions that we wanted to in europe.  mr blunkett met his eu counterparts in luxembourg on monday to consider proposals aimed at streamlining decision making on the issue.  the 25 member-states are expected to scrap the requirement for unanimous agreement on immigration policy  in favour of the qualified majority voting (qmv) system. under this scheme larger states such as britain are expected to have more power than the smaller eu states. britain is expected to retain an  opt-in  right which will allow it to ignore any measures it disagrees with. liberal democrat spokesman mark oaten called the change pragmatic and argued it gave a better chance of producing a european asylum solution.  if we don t work together it means some countries can ignore their responsibilities at the expense of their neighbours   said mr oaten.  the liberal democrats have long argued that britain should be a safe haven for asylum seekers but it s right that we don t do this in isolation.
christmas song formula  unveiled a formula for the ultimate christmas single has been revealed by chart bible british hit singles and albums.  the recipe includes a reference to father christmas  sleigh bells  a children s choir and a charity element. the song should also include christmas in the title  wishes for peace on earth and lots of airplay at office parties.  there are common musical elements linking nearly all the big christmas number ones of recent times   said editor david roberts. the book s analysts commissioned chart prank group moped to create the first christmas single using the whole formula - the song is called gonna have a no 1 this christmas by moped vs santa.   everybody says that christmas number ones are formulaic  but gonna have a number one this christmas is the first song to crack the formula and combine all these elements into one ultimate christmas track  said mr roberts.  surprisingly  there s no santa listed among the 8 000  top 75 chart performers in the book  so this is our chance to help santa to his rightful place in british recording history.  big festive hits over the years include band aid s do they know it s christmas   slade s merry christmas everybody  wham s last christmas and sir cliff richards  mistletoe and wine. band aid 20 s remake of do they know it s christmas is set to be confirmed as number one in the charts on sunday.
blair rejects tory terror offer tony blair has rejected a conservative compromise offer that could have eased the passage of anti-terror legislation.  the tories wanted a sunset clause inserted in the anti-terrorism bill that would have forced ministers to revisit it in november. mr blair said the bill  which brings in house arrest for terror suspects  had time limiting safeguards already. the tories say they will vote against it unless changes they want are agreed. the lib dems also oppose the plans.  the government has already given way over the role of judges in house arrest cases.  mr blair s refusal to accept the tories  sunset clause proposals means that the government faces concerted opposition from all sides in the lords. peers begin three days of detailed deliberation on the bill on thursday. the bill proposes  control orders   which as well as placing terrorism suspects under house arrest could mean curfews  tagging or bans on telephone and internet use. these would replace current powers to detain foreign terror suspects without trial  which the law lords have ruled against as a breach of human rights.  the tories want judicial oversight of all control orders  not just house arrest. shadow home secretary david davis told bbc radio four s the world at one his primary concern was potential miscarriages of justice. he said if someone was wrongly given a control order it would act as a  recruiting sergeant  for terrorists. he went on to say:  if we don t get the amendments we regard as essential  including the sunset clause  we will vote against the bill.  in the commons  mr howard said it would be  far better if the whole of the legislation was subject to a sunset clause so parliament could consider it all in a proper way instead of it being ramrodded through . mr blair said the house arrest powers were already going to be subject to a sunset clause because it was annually renewable.  the second  less stringent  type of control orders would be subject to a court appeal within 14 days and there would be a three-monthly report on their use by  an eminent and independent person .  i believe (the new powers) are a proper balance between the civil liberties of the subject and the necessary national security of this country that i will not put at risk   said mr blair. the lib dems plan to oppose the bill in the lords on thursday. lib dem home affairs spokesman mark oaten said:  there s a lot of talking left. i would be uneasy about supporting a very bad bill even if it was just for eight months.  a spokeswoman for human rights watch said it was a  basic principle  that people should only be punished after a fair trial. she added:  having a judge impose those punishments without a trial does not sanitise them either.
roddick to face saulnier in final andy roddick will play cyril saulnier in the final of the sap open in san jose on sunday.  the american top seed and defending champion overcame germany s tommy haas  the third seed  7-6 (7-3) 6-3.  i was feeling horrible earlier in the week   roddick said.  i thought tonight was a step in the right direction.  saulnier battled to a 6-7 (3-7) 6-3 6-3 win over seventh seed jurgen melzer  who twisted his ankle early in the second set. roddick won the last four points of the first-set tie-break before being broken at the start of the second set. but he broke straight back and then broke haas again to lead 4-2.  it s extremely frustrating when you have chances against a top-five player and don t do anything with them   admitted haas.  i rushed a few backhands and he took advantage.  saulnier will move into the world s top 50 for the first time after his passage through to the final.  it s taken a lot of work and a lot of fighting in my mind   he revealed.  sometimes i didn t believe i could get to a final and now i am here. i ve stayed mentally strong.  i m on the way. i ll keep fighting and work a lot and i ll be up there.
brown outlines third term vision gordon brown has outlined what he thinks should be the key themes of new labour s next general election bid.  he said ensuring every child in britain had the best start in life could be a legacy to match the nhs s creation. the chancellor has previously planned the party s election strategy but this time the role will be filled by alan milburn - a key ally of tony blair. the premier insisted mr brown will have a key role in labour s campaign  and praised his handling of the economy.  writing in the guardian newspaper  mr brown outlined his view of the direction new labour should be taking.  as our manifesto and our programme for the coming decade should make clear  labour s ambition is not simply tackling idleness but delivering full employment; not just attacking ignorance  disease and squalor but promoting lifelong education  good health and sustainable communities.  bbc political editor andrew marr said that mr brown s article was  a warning shot  to mr blair not to try and cut him out of the manifesto writing process.  it was  as always  coded and careful... but entirely deliberate   was mr marr s assessment. the prime minister was asked about mr brown s article and about his election role when he appeared on bbc radio 4 s today programme. mr blair said a decision had yet to be taken over how the election would be run but the chancellor s role would be  central . mr blair argued that under new labour the country had changed for the better and that was  in part  because of mr brown s management of the economy. and he pledged childcare would be a  centrepiece  of labour s manifesto. he also predicted the next general election will be a  tough  tough fight  for new labour. but the prime minister insisted he did not know what date the poll would take place despite speculation about 5 may. mr blair said he was taking  nothing for granted  ahead of the vote - warning that the tory strategy was to win power via the back door by hinting they were aiming to cut labour s majority instead of hoping for an outright win.
no seasonal lift for house market a swathe of figures have provided further evidence of a slowdown in the uk property market.  the council of mortgage lenders (cml)  british bankers association (bba) and building societies association (bsa) all said mortgage lending was slowing. cml figures showed gross lending fell by 4% in november as the number of people buying new homes fell. elsewhere  the bba added underlying mortgage lending rose by £4m in november  compared to october s £4.29m. the cml said that loans for new property purchases fell 25% year-on-year to 85 000 - the lowest total seen since february 2003.  data from the cml showed lending fell to just over £25bn in november  from £25.5bn a year earlier. separate figures from the building societies association showed the value of mortgage approvals -- loans agreed but not yet made -- stood 32% lower than at the same time last year  at a seasonally-adjusted £2.98bn. the figures come hot on the heels of new data from property website rightmove which suggested owners must indulge in a  winter sale  and slash prices by up to 8%. miles shipside  commercial director at rightmove  said sellers would have to be  more realistic with their asking prices  to tempt buyers. the average asking price of a home fell by more than £600 from £190 329 in november to £189 733 in december  while the length of time it takes to sell a home rose to 81 days from 53 in the summer.  rightmove said estate agents were set to enter 2005 with a third more properties on their books than a year ago.  even once the quieter holiday period is over  sellers will find themselves competing with a lot of other properties on the market. in any business  excess supply and low demand means one thing - cut prices   mr shipside said.   the proof is that some properties that have been appropriately discounted are selling  even in the current market.  overall  asking prices have fallen 3.3% from their july peaks as the equivalent of £6 500 has been cut from an average property. a host of mortgage lenders and economists have predicted that property prices will either fall or stagnate in 2005.  what is apparent is a picture of a slowing market  but one that should remain stable as we return to more normal volumes of lending over 2005 as a whole   cml director general michael coogan said.  it s a fairly consistent picture  showing that mortgage demand has fallen back again  which is consistent with a continuing correction in the housing market   investec economist philip shaw said.  however  the figures do suggest only a modest weakening  and we stand by our view that the property market will remain in the doldrums for some time  though a collapse is still unlikely.
fbi agent colludes with analyst a former fbi agent and an internet stock picker have been found guilty of using confidential us government information to manipulate stock prices.  a new york court ruled that former fbi man jeffrey royer  41  fed damaging information to anthony elgindy  36. mr elgindy then drove share prices lower by spreading negative publicity via his newsletter. the egyptian-born analyst would extort money from his targets in return for stopping the attacks  prosecutors said.  under the guise of protecting investors from fraud  royer and elgindy used the fbi s crime-fighting tools and resources actually to defraud the public   said us attorney roslynn mauskopf.  mr royer was convicted of racketeering  securities fraud  obstruction of justice and witness tampering. mr elgindy was convicted of racketeering  securities fraud and extortion.  the charges carry sentences of up to 20 years. when the guilty verdict was announced by the jury foreman  mr elgindy dropped his face into his hands and sobbed  the associated press news agency reported. he was led weeping from the court room by us marshals  ap said. defense lawyers contended that mr royer had been feeding information to mr elgindy and another trader in an attempt to expose corporate fraud. mr elgindy s team claimed that he also was fighting against corporate wrongdoing.  elgindy s conviction marks the end of his public charade as a crusader against fraud in the market   said ms mauskopf. one of the more bizarre aspects of the trial focused on the claims that mr elgindy may have had foreknowledge of the 11 september terrorist attacks in new york and washington. mr elgindy had been trying to sell stock prior to the attack and had predicted a slump in the market. no charges were brought in relation to these allegations.
yeading face newcastle in fa cup premiership side newcastle united face a trip to ryman premier league leaders yeading in the fa cup third round.  the game - arguably the highlight of the draw - is a potential money-spinner for non-league yeading  who beat slough in the second round. conference side exeter city  who knocked out doncaster on saturday  will travel to old trafford to meet holders manchester united in january. arsenal were drawn at home to stoke and chelsea will play host to scunthorpe. the only other non-league side in the draw are hinckley united  who held brentford to a goalless draw on sunday. they will meet league one leaders luton if they win their replay against martin allen s team at griffin park.  a number of premiership teams face difficult away games against championship sides on the weekend of 8/9 january. third-placed everton visit plymouth  liverpool travel to burnley  crystal palace go to sunderland  fulham face carling cup semi-finalists watford  bolton meet ipswich  while aston villa were drawn against sheffield united. premiership strugglers norwich  blackburn  west brom are away at west ham  cardiff and preston north end respectively. southampton visit northampton  having already beaten the league two side in the carling cup earlier this season. middlesbrough were drawn away against either swindon or notts county  while spurs entertain brighton at white hart lane.  arsenal v stoke  swindon/notts co v middlesbrough  man utd v exeter  plymouth v everton  leicester v blackpool  derby v wigan  sunderland v crystal palace  wolves v millwall  yeading v newcastle  hull v colchester  tottenham v brighton  reading v stockport/swansea  birmingham v leeds  hartlepool v boston  milton keynes dons v peterborough  oldham v man city  chelsea v scunthorpe  cardiff v blackburn  charlton v rochdale  west ham v norwich  sheff utd v aston villa  preston v west brom  rotherham v yeovil  burnley v liverpool  bournemouth v chester  coventry v crewe  watford v fulham  ipswich v bolton  portsmouth v gillingham  northampton v southampton  qpr v nottm forest  luton v hinckley/brentford  matches to be played on weekend of 8/9 january.
bell set for england debut bath prop duncan bell has been added to england s 30-man squad to face ireland in the rbs six nations.  and with phil vickery sidelined for at least six weeks with a broken arm and julian white out with a neck injury  bell could make his england debut. bell  30  had set his sights on an international career with wales. but last december  the international rugby board confirmed that he could only be eligible for england as he had travelled on tour with them in 1998. england coach andy robinson could take a gamble and call inexperienced sale sharks prop andrew sheridan into his front row. but sheridan favours the loosehead side of the scrum and a more likely scenario is for uncapped bell - who was among the tryscorers when england a beat france a 30-20 nine days ago - to be drafted in. robinson also has an injury worry over centre olly barkley  who withdrew from bath s starting line-up to face gloucester last weekend.  he was due to have a hospital scan on monday  while gloucester centre henry paul  who started at fly-half against bath  limped out at kingsholm because of an ankle problem. despite barkley s three missed penalties in the 18-17 defeat against france  he is expected to retain his place at inside centre  although leicester s in-form prospect ollie smith would be an obvious replacement. bath coach john connolly rates barkley as no better than a 50/50 chance to make the dublin trip. uncapped fly-half andy goode has been named in a 30-man training squad for the ireland game  and he strengthened his selection claims by kicking 28 points during leicester s record 83-10 win against newcastle on sunday. england s players are due to meet at their surrey training base on monday.
howard rebuts asylum criticisms tory leader michael howard has gone on the offensive in response to people questioning how a son of immigrants can propose asylum quotas.  mr howard  whose parents fled the nazi threat to come to the uk  says the claim would mean no-one from an immigrant family could become premier. his comments come in a bbc documentary called  no more mr nasty . tv presenter anne robinson said as home secretary he gave the impression he would  like to kick your cat . ms robinson  a friend of the tory leader  also revealed that as a cambridge student mr howard was  much loved by women and he was a courteous and kind and rather dashing lover  - although she denied having personal experience.  i wasn t at cambridge - and it s not personal experience - but i know people who were.   documentary maker michael cockerell was given behind-the-scenes access to mr howard for his film portrait. the tory leader was asked about to respond to people who said that if there had there been a quota on immigration and asylum in the 1930s  his parents might not have been allowed into the country.  he replies:  what is the inference of that   that if you reach the view that you need to control immigration in the interests of the country you re not allowed to put a view forward if you happen to be descended from immigrants   that seems to me an absolutely extraordinary proposition  it would certainly mean no one from immigrant parents could be prime minister.   ms robinson  who presents the weakest link tells cockerell that she despaired at his hardline image when he was home secretary in john major s government.  i used to have to sit on my hands because he d get on television and give a passable impression of someone who d like to kick your cat or would put your baby in prison if he cried. i mean it was very  very draconian.  the film shows mr howard laughing at rory bremner s impression of him as dracula  which he calls  good fun   apart from the serious falsehood of a comment suggesting he wants fewer black people in the uk. the film shows the private side of the tory leader watching television at home or playing table tennis with his wife  ex-model sandra. asked if she enjoys a game of ping pong she confesses:  yeah  it would be more enjoyable if i could win occasionally too  but otherwise it s quite fun.   former downing street communications chief alastair campbell  now working on labour s election campaign  says a  touchy-feely  image does not fit mr howard. he says tony blair was not worried by his opponents  early performance in their commons clashes because mr howard lacked a  big strategy   including on issues like iraq. the tory leader brands such criticisms as  absolutely rubbish   arguing that he has been consistent on his support for the war but critical of mr blair s failure to tell the truth on intelligence. former tory chancellor ken clarke says mr howard has a bigger problem changing perceptions of the tory party than his personal image. mr clarke says the party is improving and it is  conceivable  it could win the next election. but he adds:  it has got to change itself a bit and broaden its appeal.   - michael howard: no more mr nasty is being shown on bbc2 on saturday 12 february at 2005 gmt.
levy tipped for whitbread prize novelist andrea levy is favourite to win the main whitbread prize book of the year award  after winning novel of the year with her book small island.  the book has already won the orange prize for fiction  and is now 5/4 favourite for the £25 000 whitbread. second favourite is a biography of mary queen of scots  by john guy. a panel of judges including sir trevor mcdonald  actor hugh grant and writer joanne harris will decide the overall winner on tuesday.  the five writers in line for the award won their respective categories - first novel  novel  biography  poetry and children s book - on 6 january. small island  levy s fourth novel  is set in post-war london and centres on a landlady and her lodgers. one is a jamaican who joined british troops to fight hitler but finds life difficult out of uniform when he settles in the uk.  what could have been a didactic or preachy prospect turns out to hilarious  moving humane and eye-popping. it s hard to think of anybody not enjoying it   wrote the judges. the judges called guy s my heart is my own: the life of mary queen of scots  an impressive and readable piece of scholarship  which cannot fail but leave the reader moved and intrigued by this most tragic and likeable of queens . guy has published many histories  including one of tudor england. he is a fellow at clare college  cambridge and became a honorary research professor of the university of st andrews in 2003.  the other contenders include susan fletcher for eve green  which won the first novel prize. fletcher has recently graduated from the university of east anglia s creative writing course. the fourth book in the running is corpus  michael symmons roberts  fourth collection of poems. as well as writing poetry  symmons roberts also makes documentary films. geraldine mccaughrean is the final contender  having won the children s fiction category for the third time for not the end of the world. mccaughrean  who went into magazine publishing after studying teaching  previously won the category in 1987 with a little lower than angels and in 1994 with gold dust.
minister defends hunting ban law the law banning hunting with dogs in england and wales is enforceable and  very clear   alun michael has said.  the rural affairs minister said it would become obvious if people flouted the law  which came into force on friday  and pretended they were not. some 270 hunts met legally on saturday killing a total of 91 foxes - only four were accidentally killed by hounds. but anti-hunt campaigners said there had been widespread intimidation of activists monitoring hunts. countryside alliance chairman john jackson said that saturday had been a  massive demonstration by the rural community of support for hunting . people had turned out  to show en masse that the hunting act was a bad law   he said adding that foxes and other animals had been killed  legally  as far as he was aware.  although hunting with dogs is now a criminal offence  exercising hounds  chasing a scent trail and flushing out foxes to be shot are still legal. addressing claims that the new law was unenforceable  mr michael told bbc radio 4 s today programme:  there has been a lot of spin about this by those that support hunting.  the reality is that the law is very clear. you can t chase wild mammals with a pack of dogs  whether the wild mammal is a fox or a deer.  if people do so and pretend they re not it s going to become very clear. you can t hunt accidentally.  mr michael also denied the hunting ban had led to a breakdown of trust between the government and rural communities. he said most people living in the countryside were more concerned with issues like the economy  the health service and their children s future than hunting.  but the league against cruel sports claimed the new act had been broken even though the numbers of foxes killed had fallen. thousands of hunt supporters turned out at 270 hunts across england and wales on the first day of the ban  with anti-hunt groups sending out 100 monitors to check the law was not being broken. there were only four arrests - over alleged hunting of hares in wiltshire - although it was not clear whether they were made under the hunting act.  they have been released on bail but police say they may face prosecution under new poaching laws. but penny little  who monitored the bicester hunt in oxfordshire  said she had witnessed  gratuitous  spiteful killing of foxes . if people tried to  run circles around this law  the only outcome would be that it was tightened up  she said. mike hobday  from the league against cruel sports  said video evidence of the law being broken would be passed onto police. he said intimidation seemed to have been widespread and called on hunts to do more to stop their supporters intimidating anti-hunt activists videoing hunts. but mr jackson  who had been at the bicester hunt in oxfordshire  denied there was any intimidation.
ministers  naive  over phone-taps the government is being naive by refusing to allow phone-tap evidence in court  a senior eu politician says.  javier solana  eu foreign policy chief  says phone-tap evidence works in the courts of other european countries. human rights groups  top police officers and many mps say allowing the evidence would remove the need to detain terror suspects without charge. but home secretary charles clarke says the evidence would not make much difference to these cases. mr solana told itv1 s jonathan dimbleby programme:  [phone-tap evidence in court] works  it is normal that it is done  it would be naive not to do it.  it would be naive not to use this technological thing that we have at our disposal.  mr solana s comments come the day after sir ian blair  the newly-appointed metropolitan police commissioner  said he was in favour of phone-tap evidence.  under the anti-terrorism crimes and security act 2001  foreign terror suspects can be detained in british jails without trial or charge. several suspects have been detained under these powers because evidence against them was deemed too sensitive to be heard in court.  some of this evidence is believed to be telephone intercepts. human rights group liberty has argued that if intercept evidence could be heard  these detainees could be brought to trial. but critics of phone-tap trials say the evidence is often weak and can expose the methods of the security services. the home secretary says intercepts would not make much difference because cases against terror suspects frequently rely on other kinds of surveillance. but mr clarke has been forced to change the regime of detention without trial after law lords ruled it illegal. he has opted for a system of  control orders  whereby suspects  both british and foreign  can be held under house arrest or surveillance. these orders will again involve a uk opt-out of parts of the european convention on human rights. while accepting that people  have to be prepared  for a possible terrorist attack  mr solana said he had  qualms  about the home secretary s new plans.  we have to fight terrorism with all our means  but not so far as to change our way of life   he said.
new york rockers top talent poll new york electro-rock group the bravery have come top of the bbc news website s sound of 2005 poll to find the music scene s most promising new act.  the bravery  who have been compared to the cure and new order  were the most heavily-tipped act in the survey of 110 impartial critics and broadcasters. rock band keane won sound of 2004 while us rapper 50 cent topped sound of 2003. other new artists in this year s list include london indie group bloc party at second and uk rapper kano third. the bravery played their first gig in 2003 and have since supported bands including the libertines  interpol and echo and the bunnymen.  they were the subject of a record company bidding war in 2004 and their debut single  unconditional  caused a huge buzz when it was released in the uk in november. singer sam endicott said he felt  great  about coming top of the sound of 2005 list.  anyone that says they don t want a zillion screaming fans is a jackass  a liar   he said. one of the experts to tip the bravery was the times  music critic paul connolly  who said they were  spiky but in love with pop . chris hawkins  host of bbc 6 music s chart show  said the band had  great guitars and a mastery of the electro-clash sound .  the bravery are proof alone that new york city is still home to hot new talent   he said. nigel harding  head of music at london rock radio station xfm  said every track from their live set  sounded like a potential single .  unconditional reached the summit of the station s listeners  chart within a fortnight of its first play  which mr harding described as  an unheard of achievement for a debut single .  q magazine reviews editor ted kessler said they were  pretty-boy new york clothes horses  with  an unusually nimble ear for concise  yearning pop in the mould of duran duran or the strokes . other pundits to take part in the survey included bbc radio 1 dj trevor nelson  nme editor conor mcnicholas  top of the pops presenter fearne cotton  glastonbury organiser emily eavis and bbc radio 2 music editor colin martin. elsewhere on the top 10  second-placed rock band bloc party began their rise after supporting franz ferdinand and uk garage mc kano  in third  is signed to the streets  record label. us rapper the game is hip-hop great dr dre s latest protege while leeds group kaiser chiefs came fifth with a promise to lead a britpop revival. in last year s survey  keane were followed by franz ferdinand  razorlight and joss stone in the top five - all of whom were virtually unknown outside the music industry at that point.  boy band mcfly were sixth while scissor sisters  who had the uk s best-selling album of 2004  were seventh. in the survey  the pundits were asked for tips for three acts they thought were capable of reaching the top in their chosen genre  either in terms of sales or critical acclaim. the artists could be from any country and any musical genre  but must not have had a uk top 20 single  been a contestant on a tv talent show or already be famous for doing something else  such as a soap actor. those tips were then counted and compiled to make the top 10.
quiksilver moves for rossignol shares of skis rossignol  the world s largest ski-maker  have jumped as much as 15% on speculation that it will be bought by us surfwear firm quiksilver.  the owners of rossignol  the boix-vives family  are said to be considering an offer from quiksilver. analysts believe other sporting goods companies may now take a closer look at rossignol  prompting an auction and pushing the sale price higher. nike and k2 have previously been mentioned as possible suitors.  rossignol shares touched 17.70 euros  before falling back to trade 7.8% higher at 16.60 euros. european sporting goods companies have seen foreign revenues squeezed by a slump in the value of the us dollar  making a takeover more attractive  analysts said. companies such as quiksilver would be able to cut costs by selling rossignol skis through their shops  they added. the boix-vives family is thought to have spent the past couple of years sounding out possible suitors for rossignol  which also makes golf equipment  snowboards and sports clothing.
mogul wilson backing uk rap band tony wilson  the music mogul who established the influential factory records in the 1980s  is to launch a new label - convinced he has discovered his  third major band .  factory were the label of both joy division - who became new order after singer ian curtis committed suicide - and the happy mondays. now wilson believes rap act raw t - signed to his f4 label  the fourth incarnation of factory - will  complete the hat-trick .  suddenly  when raw t came into my life  i realised they are my third major band   he told bbc world service s the music biz programme. the group are set to release their first single on 21 february  and follow it up with an album  realise and witness  in march.  wilson has twice tried to resurrect factory - which lasted for 14 years before folding - but conceded these efforts had been  despondent and dismal experiences . but it has not put him off.  of all the things i do in my life the most exciting thing i ve ever done  and the thing i have most loved  is being part of a record company   he added.   the idea of working with brilliant young musicians  and being close to the centre of popular culture  is just the biggest thrill in my life.  wilson explained how his son persuaded him to go and see raw t  but he had initially been reluctant saying he  detested  young british people rapping.  it s always inauthentic  it s always crass  it never really works for me   he said.  i went to see this group  raw t - which stands for realise and witness talent - and like everyone else in the room that night  we were utterly blown away.  wilson believes raw t could be  to f4 as joy division were to factory records .  the story of factory records - which also owned the legendary hacienda club in manchester - was told in the michael winterbottom film 24 hour party people  in which wilson was played by steve coogan.  wilson stressed that the independent music scene remained  as important  as it had been during the 1980s  when labels such as factory and rough trade proliferated. he pointed out that franz ferdinand and the white stripes -  perhaps the two most important bands since the millennium  - were signed to indies.  i think that is a reflection of how useful and how powerful the indie philosophy is  and how bands prefer it   he added.  they can make more money that way - it s a more generous relationship  and also it s a more understanding relationship.  i think independents are in a wonderful position at this moment in time.
musicians to tackle us red tape musicians  groups are to tackle us visa regulations which are blamed for hindering british acts  chances of succeeding across the atlantic.  a singer hoping to perform in the us can expect to pay $1 300 (£680) simply for obtaining a visa. groups including the musicians  union are calling for an end to the  raw deal  faced by british performers. us acts are not faced with comparable expense and bureaucracy when visiting the uk for promotional purposes.  nigel mccune from the musicians  union said british musicians are  disadvantaged  compared to their us counterparts. a sponsor has to make a petition on their behalf  which is a form amounting to nearly 30 pages  while musicians face tougher regulations than athletes and journalists.  if you make a mistake on your form  you risk a five-year ban and thus the ability to further your career   says mr mccune.   the us is the world s biggest music market  which means something has to be done about the creaky bureaucracy   says mr mccune.  the current situation is preventing british acts from maintaining momentum and developing in the us   he added.  the musicians  union stance is being endorsed by the music managers  forum (mmf)  who say british artists face  an uphill struggle  to succeed in the us  thanks to the tough visa requirements  which are also seen as impractical. the mmf s general secretary james seller said:  imagine if you were an orchestra from the orkneys  every member would have to travel to london to have their visas processed.    the us market is seen as the holy grail and one of the benchmarks of success  and we re still going to fight to get in there.  it s still very important  but there are other markets like europe  india and china   added mr seller. a department for media  culture and sport spokeswoman said:  we re aware that people are experiencing problems  and are working with the us embassy and record industry to see what we can do about it.  a us embassy spokesman said:  we are aware that entertainers require visas for time-specific visas and are doing everything we can to process those applications speedily.   we are aware of the importance of cultural exchange and we will do our best to facilitate that   he added.
blair congratulates bush on win tony blair has said he looks forward to continuing his strong relationship with george bush and working with him during his second term as president.  mr bush s re-election came at a crucial time for a world that was  fractured  divided and uncertain   mr blair said. it had to be brought together  he added  saying action was needed on poverty  the middle east and the conditions on which terrorists prey. mr blair said states had to work with the us to fight global terrorism.  but there was a need to recognise it would not be defeated by  military might alone but also by demonstrating the strength of our common values  he added. solving the conflict in the middle east was the world s single most  pressing political challenge  of the present day  mr blair warned. the prime minister also urged europe and the us to  build anew their alliance .   all of us in positions of leadership  not just president bush  have a responsibility to rise to this challenge. it is urgent that we do so.  mr blair also paid tribute to democrat john kerry s campaign  saying he had helped make the presidential election  a true celebration of american democracy . the election of the us president was significant for the world but particularly so for britain because of its special relationship  he added. earlier tory leader michael howard sent mr bush his  warmest congratulations   saying:  we look to the president to be a unifying force for those all over the world who share our determination to defend freedom.  liberal democrat leader charles kennedy welcomed the fact there had been a quick conclusion to the election  unlike in 2000.  mr bush s first task was to  rebuild a sense of domestic purpose  within the us  he said. mr kennedy said:  internationally  it is to be hoped that a second term will see a more sensitive approach to relations with long-standing allies  not least for the global efforts to combat terrorism.  lib dem foreign affairs spokesman menzies campbell said a win by mr kerry would have given mr blair the chance of a fresh start  adding it was almost as if there was an  umbilical cord  between mr bush and the uk premier.   europeans must hope that his administration will be much more multilateral in character  and that he will act swiftly to rebuild the atlantic partnership which is so vital to security.  iraq will remain an issue of potential division for some time to come.  even before the result became clear  mr blair was being urged to push for action on climate change at his first meeting with whichever candidate won.  liberal democrat environment spokesman norman baker underlined the issue of global warming during a commons debate on anglo-american relations on wednesday. environment secretary margaret beckett has said the us will act on global warming despite george bush s refusal to sign up to the kyoto protocol on carbon emissions. public opinion would force change  she told bbc news. but myron ebell  an adviser on climate change to president bush  has said there would be no change in the us stance and rejected the threat of climate change. he claimed the us was the only country with independent scientists.
metlife buys up citigroup insurer us banking giant citigroup has sold its travelers life & annuity insurance arm to metlife for $11.5bn (£6.1bn).  the sale is a further move by citigroup away from its 1990s strategy of offering every financial service - insurance  broking and banking. profit growth in the insurance market has not matched expansion at citigroup s other businesses. for metlife  the us s leading insurance company  the purchase gives it access to a much larger distribution network.  robert benmosche  metlife s chairman and chief executive  said that it was a  great opportunity for the brand of metlife to be distributed through citigroup . under the agreement  metlife will be able to sell its products through citigroup over the next 10 years. the deal includes smith barney retail brokerages and citibank branches. the company will pay between $1bn and $3bn in metlife stock with the rest being made up of cash. travelers had sales of $5.2bn in 2004 and made a profit of $901m. it has total net assets of $96bn.  this deal employs some of metlife s excess capital in a potentially higher-return business and gives it more distribution   said stuart quint  an analyst at gartmore.
campbell rescues arsenal sol campbell proved to be an unlikely match-winner to earn arsenal a hard-fought win at portsmouth.  the england defender lashed home a 25-yard shot for his first goal in 16 months to take arsenal back into second spot  five points behind chelsea. but before campbell scored the best two chances of the game fell to pompey striker ricardo fuller. in the first half he blasted wide when clear  and his control let him down in the second half when well placed. portsmouth got plenty of bodies behind the ball to deny arsenal space in the early stages. but their marking was slack at a corner and patrick vieira should have done better when the ball fell to him 16 yards out. a mistake by arjan de zeeuw let thierry henry in behind the pompey defence on 17 minutes but as he bore down on goal linvoy primus got in a saving tackle. with just fuller as an out-and-out striker  portsmouth s shape made life difficult for arsenal. but a delightful touch by robin van persie gave henry a sight of goal  although the angle was too tight for his shot to trouble jamie ashdown.  ashdown caused hearts to flutter on 28 minutes when he missed his punch at a corner and kolo toure headed just wide and  as arsenal began to press  van persie blasted over a good opportunity after henry had set him up. henry took a quick return pass from vieira but ashdown was out quickly to block  and there were some anxious seconds for pompey as the ball ran loose before matthew taylor cleared. after playing second fiddle  portsmouth should have taken the lead on 34 minutes. referee howard webb played a good advantage to allow steve stone to send gary o neil away but  having shrugged off toure  the pompey midfielder planted his shot wide from 10 yards. as half-time approached  henry teased a shot through a ruck of players and inches wide. at the other end  fuller broke clear but failed to hit the target as toure closed him down.  fuller was given the best chance of the match so far on 48 minutes when patrik berger s break and slipped pass played him clear. but a poor first touch lost him the opportunity and even when he checked back and went down under vieira s challenge  referee webb was not interested. fuller paid the price when he gave way on 55 minutes to aiyegbeni yakubu  who returned after six weeks out with a knee injury. but it needed alert reflexes and safe handling from ashdown to cling on to van persie s shot as henry sniffed for scraps.  portsmouth were growing in confidence and keeper manuel almunia had to stand his ground to beat away a powerful shot from berger. arsenal were struggling to find their rhythm but took the lead through the unlikely source of campbell. the england defender needed little invitation as pompey backed off to stride forward and lash a ferocious shot past ashdown. arsenal might have stretched their lead two minutes later when mathieu flamini escaped his marker to flash a header wide from henry s free-kick. almunia went full length to grab berger s long-range shot  while ashdown palmed away substitute dennis bergkamp s shot.  ashdown  griffin  de zeeuw  primus  taylor  stone  o neil  faye (berkovic 83)  berger  lualua  fuller (yakubu 55).  subs not used: hislop  quashie  cisse.  almunia  lauren  toure  campbell  cole  pires  flamini  vieira  clichy  van persie (bergkamp 68)  henry.  subs not used: lehmann  fabregas  senderos  hoyte.  cole.  campbell 75.  20 170.  h webb (s yorkshire).
us tv special for tsunami relief a us television network will screen a celebrity tv special to benefit the tsunami relief effort in south asia.  nbc will encourage viewer donations during an hour-long show featuring musical performances on 15 january. actress sandra bullock has donated $1m (£525 000) to the american red cross and actor leonardo dicaprio pledged a  sizable  aid contribution to unicef. meanwhile 70 hong kong music and movie stars re-recorded we are the world in mandarin and cantonese to raise funds.  the song will not be released as a single  but will be played regularly during a chinese telethon on friday in aid of victims of the boxing day disaster. around 140 000 people were killed and five million left homeless or without food and water after an earthquake below the indian ocean sent waves crashing into coastal communities in 11 countries.  the united nations warned that the number killed in the disaster could rise sharply  with aid yet to reach some remote areas. performers have yet to be confirmed for nbc s aid relief benefit later this month. it follows a two-hour telethon carried by all four major us television networks 10 days after the 11 september terror attacks in 2001. america: a tribute to heroes raised more than $150m (£79m) to help victims of the suicide attacks on the world trade center and pentagon.
india seeks to boost construction india has cleared a proposal allowing up to 100% foreign direct investment in its construction sector.  kamal nath  commerce and industry minister  announced the decision in delhi on thursday following a cabinet meeting. analysts say improving india s infrastructure will boost foreign investment in other sectors too. the indian government s decision has spread good cheer in the construction sector  according to some indian firms.  a spokesman for dlf builders  dr vancheshwar  told the bbc this will mean  better offerings  for consumers as well as builders. he said the firm will benefit from world class  strategic partnerships  design expertise and technology  while consumers will have better choice.   the government proposal states that foreign investment of up to 100% will be allowed on the  automatic route  in the construction sector  on projects including housing  hotels  resorts  hospitals and educational establishments. the automatic route means that construction companies need only get one set of official approvals and do not need to gain clearance from the foreign investment promotion board  which can be bureaucratic. the government hopes its new policy will create employment for construction workers  and benefit steel and brick-making industries.  mr nath also announced plans to allow foreign investors to develop a smaller area of any land they acquired.  foreign investors can enter any construction development area  be it to build resorts  townships or commercial premises but they will have to construct at least 50 000 square meters (538 000 square feet) within a specific timeframe   said mr nath  without specifying the timeframe. previously foreign investors had to develop a much larger area  discouraging some from entering the indian market. this measure is designed to discourage foreign investors from buying and selling land speculatively  without developing it. anshuman magazine  managing director  of cb richard ellis - an international real estate company - told the bbc this was  a big positive step.   however  chittabrata majumdar  general secretary of the centre of indian trade unions (citu)  said allowing fdi in the country is compromising india s own  self reliance . he said   no country can develop on the basis of foreign investment alone.  mr majumdar also said an assessment should be made as to whether foreign investment is indeed beneficial to the country - in terms of employment and money generated - or just another way of international companies filling their deep pockets.
crisis  ahead in social sciences  a national body designed to tackle skills shortages in key subjects should be set up  a committee of mps has said.  there was an  absolute crisis  in the recruitment of statisticians and other social science experts  the commons science and technology committee added.  major problems  are expected over the next 10 years as the social science workforce continues to age  it said. the committee was reporting on the work  strategy and spending plans of the economic social research council.  the council aims to promote and support strategic research for social science postgraduates and provide social scientists to meet the needs of the country. it also liaises with the government and industry over their social science needs. in its report on the council s work the committee said:  we are deeply concerned by the skills shortages afflicting  in particular  the qualitative branches of social sciences. this mirrored previous concerns the committee had expressed on shortages in the fields of maths and chemistry  it said.  it is hard to see how significant progress towards rectifying these shortages can be made through the deployment of economic and social research council s limited resources.  if the government is serious about addressing skills shortages in key subjects it needs to find a more effective mechanism to achieve this.  a national  strategic capabilities fund  to address shortages in key areas should be set up in response  the committee added.
fear will help france - laporte france coach bernard laporte believes his team will be scared going into their game with england on sunday  but claims it will work in their favour.  the french turned in a stuttering performance as they limped to a 16-9 win against scotland in the opening match of the six nations on saturday.  we will go to twickenham with a little fear and it ll give us a boost   said the french coach. he added:  we are never good enough when we are favourites.  meanwhile  perpignan centre jean-philippe granclaude is delighted to have received his first call-up to the france squad.  it s incredible   the youngster said.  i was not expecting it at all.  playing with the france team has always been a dream and now it has come true and i am about to face england at twickenham in the six nations.  laporte will announce his starting line-up on wednesday at the french team s training centre in marcoussis  near paris.
debate needed  on donations cap a cap on donations to political parties should not be introduced yet  the elections watchdog has said.  fears that big donors can buy political favours have sparked calls for a limit. in a new report  the electoral commission says it is worth debating a £10 000 cap for the future but now is not the right time to introduce it. it also says there should be more state funding for political parties and candidates should be able to spend more on election campaigning.  there were almost £68m in reported donations to political parties in 2001  2002 and 2003  with nearly £12m of them from individual gifts worth more than £1m. the rules have already been changed so the public can see who gives how much to the parties but the report says there are still public suspicions. the commission says capping donations would mean taxpayers giving parties more cash - something which would first have to be acceptable to the public and shown to work.  while we are not in principle opposed to the introduction of a donation cap  we do not believe that such a major departure from the existing system now would be sensible   says its report. if there was to be a cap  it should be £10 000 - a small enough amount to make a difference but which would have banned £56m in donations between 2001 and 2003.  even without changes the commission does urge political parties to seek out more small-scale donations and suggests there should be income tax relief for gifts under £200. it also suggests increasing state funding for parties to £3m so help can be extended to all parties with at least two members in the house of commons  european parliament  scottish parliament  welsh assembly or northern ireland assembly. and it suggests new ways of boosting election campaigning  seen as a way of improving voter turnout. all local election candidates should be entitled to a free mailshot for campaign leaflets  says the watchdog. and there should be a shift in the amount of money allowed to be spent at elections from a national level to a local level to help politicians engage better with voters.  the report suggests doubling the money which can be spent by candidates  while cutting national spending limits from £20m to £15m. the commission also says the spending limits for general elections should cover the four months before the poll - as happens with other elections. electoral commission chairman sam younger said:  there is no doubt that political parties have a vital role to play in maintaining the health of our democracy and for this they need to be adequately resourced.  our research has shown that people want to be more informed about party politics and that they want politicians to be more visible and accessible.  the public are reluctant for the state to fund parties but at the same time are unhappy with large private donations.  he called for a wider public debate on party funding to find the consensus needed for radical changes to the current system.
mobiles get set for visual radio the growth in the mobile phone market in the past decade has been nothing less than astonishing  but the ability to communicate on the go is not the only reason we are hooked. games  cameras and music players have all been added to our handsets in the last few years  but 2005 could see another big innovation that won t just see a change in our mobile phone habits - it might alter the way we listen to the radio. finnish handset giant nokia has been working on a technology called visual radio  which takes an existing fm signal from a radio station and enables that station to add enhancements such as information and pictures. it is not the first time that such an idea has been suggested - the early days of dab digital radio had similar intentions that never really saw the light of day.  one problem is that the name visual radio leads people to think of television but reidar wasenius  a senior project manager at nokia  was adamant that visual radio should not be confused with the more traditional medium. he said:  i m very happy to say it s not television  what we re talking about is an enhancement of radio as we know it today.  if you have a visual radio enabled handset  when you hear an artist you don t know  or there s a competition or vote that you d like to participate in  you pull out your handset and with one click you turn on a visual channel parallel to the on-air broadcast you ve just been listening to.   that visual channel is run from a computer within the radio station  and sends out different kinds of information to the handset depending on what you are listening to. as well as details on the track or artist of a particular song  there is also the ability to interact immediately with the radio station itself  in a similar way to digital television s  red button  content.  possible interactive content includes competitions  votes and even the chance to rate the song that is playing. but the interactive aspect will make the service especially attractive to radio stations  who will be able to track the number of people taking part in such activities on a real-time basis. this in turn should lead to an additional source of revenue  as it is very likely that advertisers will be keen to exploit new opportunities to reach listeners.  as the visual radio content is transmitted by existing gprs technology you would need to have that service enabled by your network. and there will be a cost for the service as well  although it may depend on your usage.  if you enjoy the visual channel occasionally and interact it ll be two or three pounds per month   said mr wasenius.  but typically what we see happening is the operator offering a package deal for an  all you can eat  arrangement per month.  the payment system could therefore be similar to the way that broadband internet works versus dial-up connections. one thing that is for sure - assuming that nokia retains its market share in handsets  it is estimating that there will be 100 million visual radio-enabled mobile phones in circulation by the end of 2006.  basically  visual radio is not really revolutionary  but rather an evolution where we are providing tools with which people can participate in radio much more easily than ever before.   the first visual radio service in the uk will begin in a few months time with virgin radio  who are positive about the impact it could have on their listeners. station manager steve taylor commented:  listeners can interact with the radio station in a new way.  not only does this give listeners more information on the music we play but means they can instantly purchase things they like; mp3 music downloads and the latest gig tickets.  initially visual radio functionality will be limited to two nokia handsets due out soon - the 3230 and 7710 - but if successful  it is very likely that other manufacturers will want to join them.  listen again to the interview on the radio five live website.
howard unveils election platform the conservatives would stand up for the  forgotten majority   michael howard pledged as he unveiled the first part of the tory election manifesto.  the tory leader argued there was a mass of people whom he says feel let down by tony blair and who share tory values. in the foreword to the manifesto  he promises to focus on restoring order  trying to lower taxes and giving power back to the people. labour says the document offers only a return to a  failed tory past . the liberal democrats say the conservatives cannot win what they predict will be a three-party contest.  campaigning activity is accelerating ahead of the general election  which is widely tipped for may but could be any time before june 2006. labour on monday postponed a launch of election posters because of the asian tsunami disaster. mr howard published the introduction to the tory manifesto. other chapters will follow in coming weeks.  in a speech in northamptonshire  he said the  forgotten majority  made up the backbone of britain. they were people who were saving for their first home or their retirement  working hard and accepting their responsibilities. he says in the manifesto foreword:  they have been forgotten  neglected and taken for granted by mr blair.   saying britain must change direction  mr howard argues government is too big and cannot continue  down the path of ever rising taxes . he promises to ensure frontline professionals  parents and patients make the key decisions rather than whitehall  bureaucrats . and he says the tories would get a grip on crime  immigration and disorder.  the decline of responsibility and the proliferation of so-called  human rights  have left us in a moral quagmire  unable to get a grip on rising crime and disorder   he says.  mr howard says he will produce a timetable for action so people can hold him to account but on issues like taxation he has so far only published options  not specific plans. mr howard told bbc news:  i m determined to lower taxes but i m also determined not to make any promises i can t keep.  the tories were unveiling material months ahead of the expected election because they needed time to make voters aware of their policies  he said. he was asked if tory support for the government on iraq and identity cards had given the lib dems the chance to portray themselves as the opposition to labour. mr howard argued the only test for his policies was whether they were best for britain. it had nothing to do with putting  clear blue water  between himself and his opponents.  labour s election slogan will be:  britain s working  don t let the tories wreck it again . campaign coordinator alan milburn accused the tories of  launching thatcherism in instalments  while labour helped the hard working majority of families. lib dem president simon hughes said his party had set out its election stance in september.  the liberal democrats will ask the british people for support this year as the party with the policies best able to deliver freedom and fairness and to restore trust   he said.
more women turn to net security older people and women are increasingly taking charge of protecting home computers against malicious net attacks  according to a two-year study.  the number of women buying programs to protect pcs from virus  spam and spyware attacks rose by 11.2% each year between 2002 and 2004. the study  for net security firm preventon  shows that security messages are reaching a diversity of surfers. it is thought that 40% of those buying home net security programs are retired. for the last three years  that has gone up by an average of 13.2%. but more retired women (53%) were buying security software than retired men. the research reflects the changing stereotype and demographics of web users  as well as growing awareness of the greater risks that high-speed broadband net connections can pose to surfers.  the study predicts that 40% of all home pc net security buyers will be women in 2005. they could even overtake men as the main buyers by 2007  if current rates persist  according to the research.  i think older people have become more vigilant about protecting their pcs as we tend to be more cautious and want an insurance policy in case something does go wrong   said one over-60 woman who took part in the research.   you started off with young male stereotype computer users for last 10 years   paul goosens  head of preventon told the bbc news website.  now we are seeing real people - both sexes and very often it is women who have more access at home.  but net service providers still need to take more responsibility in making sure people are educated about net threats before they go online  particuarly if they are new to broadband  he said.  programs also need to be tailored so that they can be installed by dial-up users with a slower connection too  said mr goosens. security software should be easy to use  with simple interfaces and instructions written in non-technical language  he added. the nature of the security threats are also becoming more than just about e-mail viruses. high-profile complaints about rogue diallers  and spyware or other programs that surreptitiously install themselves on computers  have also raised awareness about the need to have a combination of anti-virus  firewall and spyware-removal programs too. without protection  these kinds of programs can be picked up just through surfing the web normally.  more than 30 000 pcs a day globally are being recruited into networks that spread spam and viruses  a study from security from symantec showed last year. viruses written to make headlines by infecting millions are also getting rarer  according to net security experts. programs are being unleashed to directly profit criminal gangs  many based in eastern europe  over those which are designed to show off technical skills or cause nuisance. the research shows that more people are taking these criminal net threats more seriously because  said mr goosens  they are reported in the press much more.  you are seeing older users being educated by the media and are seeing them picking up on this threat. they are asking the right questions   he explained.  it is more likely the younger users who naively assume that because they are using a reputable service provider  that they are safe to connect to the net.  an unprotected computer on a broadband connection can be breached and infected with viruses or spyware within minutes. by the end of the year it is thought that more than 30% of uk homes will have broadband net access. in july last year  the number of uk households accessing the net via broadband surpassed those using dial-up for the first time  according to the office of national statistics.
lions blow to world cup winners british and irish lions coach clive woodward says he is unlikely to select any players not involved in next year s rbs six nations championship.  world cup winners lawrence dallaglio  neil back and martin johnson had all been thought to be in the frame for next summer s tour to new zealand.  i don t think you can ever say never   said woodward.  but i would have to have a compulsive reason to pick any player who is not available to international rugby.  dallaglio  back and johnson have all retired from international rugby over the last 12 months but continue to star for their club sides. but woodward added:  the key thing that i want to stress is that i intend to use the six nations and the players who are available to international rugby as the key benchmark.  my job  along with all the other senior representatives  is to make sure that we pick the strongest possible team.  if you are not playing international rugby then it s still a step up to test rugby. it s definitely a disadvantage.   i think it s absolutely critical and with the history of the lions we have got to take players playing for the four countries.  woodward also revealed that the race for the captaincy was still wide open.  it is an open book   he said.  there are some outstanding candidates from all four countries.  and following the all blacks  impressive displays in europe in recent weeks  including a 45-6 humiliation of france  woodward believes the three-test series in new zealand will provide the ultimate rugby challenge.  their performance in particular against france was simply awesome   said the lions coach.  certain things have been suggested about the potency of their front five  but they re a very powerful unit.  with his customary thoroughness  woodward revealed he had taken soundings from australia coach eddie jones and jake white of south africa following their tour matches in britain and ireland.  as a result  woodward stressed his lions group might not be dominated by players from england and ireland and held out hope for the struggling scots.  scotland s recent results have not been that impressive but there have been some excellent individual performances.  eddie in particular told me how tough they had made it for australia and i will take on board their opinions.  and scotland forward simon taylor looks certain to get the call  provided he recovers from knee and tendon problems.  i took lessons from 2001 in that they did make a mistake in taking lawrence dallaglio when he wasn t fit and went on the trip.  every player has to be looked at on their own merits and simon taylor is an outstanding player and i have no doubts that if he gets back to full fitness he will be on the trip.  i am told he should be back playing by march and he has plenty of time to prove his fitness for the lions - and there are other players like richard hill in the same boat.
brown to outline presidency goals next year will be  make or break  for development in poorer countries gordon brown will say as he sets out uk goals for its eu and g8 presidencies.  the chancellor is due to outline a series of key targets the government will be judged on in 2005. they will include doubling aid from donor countries and eliminating debt owed by the poorest nations. mr brown also wants other g8 nations to match his target for overseas aid - spending 0.7% of national income.  he also wants the richer countries to do more to help the development of vaccines for aids and malaria. the chancellor is travelling to america next week as part of his persuasion drive over the issue. he told bbc radio 4 s today programme:  we need more resources allied to progress on trade and progress on debt relief if we are going to make an impact on the problems of ill health  of illiteracy  of poverty  particularly in africa but right through the developing countries.   his proposals were effectively a new  marshall plan  for the world  including an international finance facility  which would issue bonds in an attempt to double global aid cash to $100bn a year. agreement in the doha development talks could also give developing nations the trading ability they needed  he argued. the european union s common agricultural policy had caused aggravated trade problems  he said  but there was now an agreement to end export subsidies.  mr brown said much had been achieved on issues such as debt relief in the last seven years. but with 30 000 children were dying unnecessarily every day more was needed  including 100% debt relief multilaterally.  that is why next year is a test   he said.  if after five years of making promises the world is not prepared to honour them  then people will be justified in saying they promised but they did not produce results.  the catholic aid agency cafod will host mr brown s speech on wednesday.  cafod wants britain to use its influence to pressure countries like the us to make firm commitments to tackle global poverty. mr brown said america too needed to take more action but defended president george bush for guaranteeing resources to countries which introduced reforms to tackle corruption. oxfam s paying the price report this week said 45 million children will die needlessly before 2015 and aid budgets are half their 1960 levels. the charity s director  barbara stocking  said:  2005 offers the chance for an historic breakthrough  but unless world leaders act now the year will end in shameful failure.  the report said the g8 of top industrialised nations had agreed in 1970 to spend 0.7% of their incomes on aid.  but 34 years later none of the organisations members had reached this target and many had not yet set a timetable. mr blair  who has described africa as a  scar  on the world s conscience  has already said tackling world poverty would be one his g8 priorities along with climate change and the aids epidemic. but band aid founder bob geldof in july said he was sick of hearing  guff  about scars on the world. it was pathetic that britain was the 4th richest country in the world but only the 11th most generous aid donor  he added. conservative shadow international development secretary alan duncan accused mr brown of missing his target on providing anti-retroviral drug treatment to three million africans by 2005. instead  only 500 000 people would benefit  he said.  there s no point in him demanding praise and adulation for setting a whole new raft of targets when he has so woefully failed to meet the ones he already has   added mr duncan.
landmark movies  of 2004 hailed us film professionals have declared fahrenheit 9/11 and the passion of the christ as two of the most significant cultural milestones of 2004.  the american film institute (afi) hailed mel gibson s biblical epic and michael moore s political documentary as inspiring national debate. it claimed both film-makers  tossed hollywood convention out the window . the institute also cited the death of actor marlon brando and the changing landscape of tv news in the us. in referring to marlon brando s death on 1 july at the age of 80  the 13-strong afi jury concluded  the art of screen acting has two chapters -  before brando  and  after brando .  it credited the screen legend s  raw hypnotic energy  and his ability to create characters like stanley kowalski and terry malloy  that will live forever in the annals of film history . the list also acknowledges key influences and trends in the world of film and broadcasting. among current trends  it highlighted the final broadcasts of veteran newscasters tom brokaw  barbara walters and the impending retirement of cbs news anchor dan rather. it its place  the afi fears  is a news landscape where  newscasters are more personalities than journalists  and balance and integrity are increasingly ignored.  the afi also questioned  the long-term viability of evening news broadcasts   in the light of 24-hour news channels and the internet. the list also draws attention to the growing influence of us broadcasting regulator  the federal communications commission (fcc)  the institute concluded the threat of regulation  which went into freefall following janet jackson s  wardrobe malfunction  during a live super bowl performance in february   had a profound effect on television .  unsure of how the fcc will rule on an issue  the creative community has begun to self-censor their shows  a disturbing trend in a country founded on free expression   the afi jury declared. to illustrate their point  the afi cited abc affiliates refusal to air steven spielberg s film saving private ryan in an unedited form over fears of possible fines.
campaigners attack mtv  sleaze  mtv has been criticised for  incessant sleaze  by television indecency campaigners in the us.  the parents television council (ptc)  which monitors violence and sex on tv  said the cable music channel offered the  cheapest form  of programming. the group is at the forefront of a vociferous campaign to clean up american television. but a spokeswoman for mtv said it was  unfair and inaccurate  to single out mtv for criticism.  the ptc monitored mtv s output for 171 hours from 20 march to 27 march 2004  during the channel s spring break coverage. in its report - mtv smut peddlers: targeting kids with sex  drugs and alcohol - the ptc said it witnessed 3 056 flashes of nudity or sexual situations and 2 881 verbal references to sex. brent bozell  ptc president and conservative activist said:  mtv is blatantly selling raunchy sex to kids.  compared to broadcast television programmes aimed at adults  mtv s programming contains substantially more sex  foul language and violence - and mtv s shows are aimed at children as young as 12.  there s no question that tv influences the attitudes and perceptions of young viewers  and mtv is deliberately marketing its raunch to millions of innocent children.   the watchdog decided to look at mtv s programmes after janet jackson s infamous  wardrobe malfunction  at last year s super bowl. the breast-baring incident generated 500 000 complaints and cbs - which is owned by the same parent company as mtv - was quick to apologise. mtv spokeswoman jeannie kedas said the network follows the same standards as broadcasters and reflects the culture and what its viewers are interested in.  it s unfair and inaccurate to paint mtv with that brush of irresponsibility   she said.  we think it s underestimating young people s intellect and level of sophistication.  ms kedas also highlighted the fact mtv won an award in 2004 for the fight for your rights series that focused on issues such as sexual health and tolerance.
speech takes on search engines a scottish firm is looking to attract web surfers with a search engine that reads out results.  called speegle  it has the look and feel of a normal search engine  with the added feature of being able to read out the results. scottish speech technology firm cec systems launched the site in november. but experts have questioned whether talking search engines are of any real benefit to people with visual impairments.  the edinburgh-based firm cec has married speech technology with ever-popular internet search. the ability to search is becoming increasingly crucial to surfers baffled by the huge amount of information available on the web.  according to search engine ask jeeves  around 80% of surfers visit search engines as their first port of call on the net. people visiting speegle can select one of three voices to read the results of a query or summarise news stories from sources such as the bbc and reuters.  it is still a bit robotic and can make a few mistakes but we are never going to have completely natural sounding voices and it is not bad   said speegle founder gordon renton.  the system is ideal for people with blurred vision or for those that just want to search for something in the background while they do something else.  we are not saying that it will be suitable for totally blind people  although the royal national institute of the blind (rnib) is looking at the technology   he added. but julie howell  digital policy manager at the rnib  expressed doubts over whether speegle and similar sites added anything to blind people s experience of the web.  there are a whole lot of options like this springing up on the web and one has to think carefully about what the market is going to be   she said.  blind people have specialised screen readers available to them which will do the job these technologies do in a more sophisticated way   she added.  the site uses a technology dubbed panavox  which takes web text and converts it into synthesised speech. in the past speech technology has only been compatible with broadband because of the huge files it downloads but cec says its compression technology means it will also work on slower dial-up connections. visitors to speegle may notice that the look and feel of the site bears more than a passing resemblance to the better known  if silent  search engine google. google has no connection with speegle and the use of bright colours is simply to make the site more visible for those with visual impairments  said mr renton.  it is not a rip-off. we are doing something that google does not do and is not planning to do and there is truth in the saying that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery   he said. speegle is proving popular with those learning english in countries such as japan and china.  the site is bombarded by people just listening to the words. the repetition could be useful although they may all end up talking like robots   said mr renton.
ireland win eclipses refereeing  errors  the international rugby board may have to step in to stop frustrated coaches and players from publicly haranguing referees when things go belly-up.  it may have to go the whole way and have nfl-style video cameras all over the field  or slap the vociferous perpetrators over the knuckles. what the irb does not want is a football scenario where the verbal slanging matches often overshadow the game itself. sunday s explosive six nations clash at lansdowne road was a good example as ireland took another step towards their first grand slam since 1948. the game was as exciting as it comes  with a much-improved england side enraged at a few decisions that did not go their way. one can understand that frustration. there was no doubt that ireland had the rub of the green in their 19-13 victory  but the reaction from the england camp may not have endeared them to the sport s  blazers . referee jonathan kaplan was not perfect by any means and two decisions in particular made him the villain of the piece. i doubt whether kaplan would have been too pleased at the comments made. after all  he has no public recourse to criticism.  it was the same for simon mcdowell  the touch judge who was heavily criticised by scotland coach matt williams after their defeat against france. as far as england were concerned  there were queries over mark cueto s first half-effort when he went over in the corner from a charlie hodgson kick.  england coach andy robinson referred to a similar case at ravenhill in january when ulster were playing gloucester in the heineken cup. on that occasion  david humphreys kicked to tommy bowe  who touched down in the corner only for the try to be wiped out. but you cannot have cameras at every conceivable angle to pick up such anomalies. perhaps robinson was right to say the referee should have gone upstairs when josh lewsey was driven over the irish line near the end.  lewsey claims he touched it down and was in full control. however  one has to credit ireland flanker johnny o connor for cleverly scooping the ball away and blocking any evidence of a touchdown. but in rugby  everything tends to even out over the 80 minutes. the referee also missed england s danny grewcock taking out ronan o gara off the ball to allow martin corry a sunday stroll to the line. those were the stand-out moments in a classic game between the two old foes.  but there were many more  and one should not take away from those. brian o driscoll s winning try was as well-conceived as they come  while charlie hodgson s brilliant kicking display was another highlight. and ronan o gara s tremendous ability to control the game was also a crucial component. but the defining moments came with ireland under the cosh in the final 15 minutes. two outstanding pieces of defensive play denied england and allowed ireland to hold on. the first was denis hickie s brilliant double tackle in the right-hand corner. he gobbled up cueto from another hodgson cross-field kick  then regained his feet to stop lewsey from scoring a certain try. ireland s second-row colossus paul o connell was equally superb. england had turned ireland one way then the other  and the defence cordon was slowly disintegrating. england prop matt stevens ran in at full steam to suck in a few more tacklers. unfortunately he ran into o connell who hit him hard - very hard - and then wrestled the ball away for a crucial turnover. that spoke volumes about ireland s back-foot display  with defensive coach mike ford taking a bow at the end. to win a game like that showed that ireland have moved forward. it may be tries that win games  but it is defence that wins championships.
french suitor holds lse meeting european stock market euronext has met with the london stock exchange (lse) amid speculation that it may be ready to launch a cash bid.  euronext chief jean-francois theodore held talks with lse boss clara furse the day after rival deutsche boerse put forward its own bid case. the german exchange said it had held  constructive  professional and friendly  talks with the lse. but euronext declined to comment after the talks ended on friday. speculation is mounting that the germans may raise their bid to £1.5bn. deutsche boerse previously offered £1.3bn  which was rejected by the lse  while euronext is rumoured to have facilities in place to fund a £1.4bn cash bid. so far  however  neither have tabled a formal bid. but a deal with either bidder would create the biggest stock market operator in europe and the second biggest in the world after the new york stock exchange.  there was speculation euronext would use friday s meeting as an opportunity to take advantage of growing disquiet over deutsche boerse s own plans for dominance over the london market. unions for deutsche boerse staff in frankfurt has reportedly expressed fears that up to 300 jobs would be moved to london if the takeover is successful.  the works council has expressed concerns that the equities and derivatives trade could be managed from london in the future   reuters news agency reports a union source as saying. german politicians are also said to be angry over the market operator s promise to move its headquarters to london if a bid were successful.  meanwhile  lse shareholders fear that deutsche boerse s control over its clearstream unit - the clearing house that processes securities transactions - would create a monopoly situation. this would weaken the position of shareholders when negotiating lower transaction fees for share dealings. lse and euronext do not have control over their clearing and settlement operations  a situation which critics say is more transparent and competitive. the german group s ownership of clearstream has been seen as the main stumbling block to a london-frankfurt merger. commentators believe deutsche boerse  which has now formally asked german authorities to approve its plan to buy the lse  may offer to sell clearstream to gain shareholder approval. euronext  so far  has given little away as to what sweeteners it will offer the lse - europe s biggest equity market - into a deal.
text message record smashed uk mobile owners continue to break records with their text messaging  with latest figures showing that 26 billion texts were sent in total in 2004.  the figures collected by the mobile data association (mda) showed that 2.4 billion were fired off in december alone  the highest monthly total ever. that was 26% more than in december 2003. the records even surpassed the mda s own predictions  it said. every day 78 million messages are sent and there are no signs of a slow down. before december s bumper text record  the previous highest monthly total was in october 2004  when 2.3 billion were sent. text messaging is set to smash more records in 2005 too  said the mda  with forecasts suggesting a total of 30 billion for the year.  even though mobiles are becoming increasingly sophisticated with much more multimedia applications  texting is still one of the most useful functions of mobiles. people are using sms to do much more too. booking cinema tickets  text voting  and news or sports text alerts are growing popular. mobile owners have also given the chance to donate to the disasters emergency committee s (dec) asian tsunami fund by texting  donate  to a simple short code number. looking further ahead in the year  the mda s chairman mike short  has predicted that more people will go online through their mobiles  estimating 15 billion wap page impressions. handsets with gprs capability - an  always on  net connection - will rise to 75%  while 3g mobile ownership growing to five million by the end of 2005. these third generation mobiles offer a high-speed connection which means more data like video can be received on the phone. globally  mobile phone sales passed 167 million in the third quarter of 2004  according to a recent report from analysts gartner. that was 26% more than the previous year. it is predicted that there would be two billion handsets in use worldwide by the end of 2005.
versace art portfolio up for sale the art collection of murdered fashion designer gianni versace could fetch up to £9m ($17m) when it is auctioned in new york and london later this year.  among the pictures for sale are works by roy lichtenstein  andy warhol and henri matisse. the collection was housed at versace s six-storey new york townhouse. the 51-year-old designer was shot outside his florida home in 1997 by suspected serial killer andrew cunanan  who later killed himself. the auction  at sotheby s  will feature 45 contemporary  impressionist and 19th century paintings. one of the highlights of the sale is roy lichtenstein s blue nude which has been given an estimate of £1.8m ($3.4m).  tobias meyer  sotheby s worldwide head of contemporary art  said:  this collection reflects mr versace s wide-ranging taste and impeccable eye  and many of the works were commissioned directly from the artists.  outstanding later examples from champions of the pop movement  such as roy lichtenstein  are juxtaposed with masterpieces from the most visible artists of the 1980 s  including jean-michel basquiat and the collaborative genius of basquiat and warhol  as well as francesco clemente.  much of the collection will be offered for sale at three auctions in new york in june  with smaller contemporary paintings going under the hammer in london on 22 and 23 june. a sale of versace s furniture and artworks sold in 2001fetched £5.5m ($10.3m).
windows worm travels with tetris users are being warned about a windows virus that poses as the hugely popular tetris game.  the cellery worm installs a playable version of the classic falling blocks game on pcs that it has infected. while users play the game  the worm spends its time using the machine to search for new victims to infect on nearby networks. the risk of infection by cellery is thought to be very low as few copies of the worm have been found in the wild.  the cellery worm does not spread via e-mail like many other viruses. instead it browses computer networks for pcs that have not shut off all the insecure ways they connect to other machines. when it infects a machine  cellery installs a version of tetris that users can play. as the game starts up the worm also starts a music file to accompany it. at the same time the virus starts scouring networks for other vulnerable machines. the virus does no damage to machines but heavily infected networks could slow down as scanning traffic builds. productivity may suffer too if users spend time playing tetris. pcs running windows 95  98  me  nt  2000  and xp could be vulnerable to the worm.  if your company has a culture of allowing games to be played in the office  your staff may believe this is simply a new game that has been installed - rather than something that should cause concern   said graham cluley  spokesman for anti-virus firm sophos. so far the number of people infected by cellery is thought to be very small and the risks of further infection is very low. sophos urged users and companies to update their anti-virus software to keep themselves protected.
bmw cash to fuel mini production less than four years after the new mini was launched  german car maker bmw has announced £100m of new investment.  some 200 new jobs are to be created at the oxford factory  including modernised machinery and a new body shell production building. the result of the investment could be to raise output to more than 200 000 cars from 2007. the rise  from 189 000 last year  is a response to rapidly-rising demand and could help wipe out waiting lists. before wednesday s announcement  bmw had invested some £280m in mini production.  since its launch during summer 2001  the new mini has gone from strength to strength.  last year  almost one in six cars sold by the bmw group was a mini. the company admits that the success of the brand came despite scepticism from many in the industry.  our decision to produce a new mini was not received well right away   said norbert reithofer  a member of the bmw management board. initially  bmw said it would produce 100 000 mini models a year at its vast cowley factory on the outskirts of oxford  but the target was quickly reached  then raised  time and time again. not everyone is convinced that the boom can continue.  the risk is that after they ve invested massively in the brand  demand tapers off like it did with the new vw beetle   said brad wernle  from automotive news europe.  the price of the car has also gone up. when it was launched  the cheapest mini cost just more than £10 000. these days  buyers will have to fork out almost £11 500 to own a new mini one  or even more for the cooper s which costs up to £17 730. the mini convertible  which was launched last spring  costs up to £15 690 for the top model  and there is even a waiting list. second-hand minis are not cheap either. a mini one bought when the model was launched should still fetch at least £8 000 for the cheapest model  while a used cooper s is likely to be priced from £12 556  according to the-car buying website parker s. the consumers  association which operates with slightly different numbers  yet it confirms that the mini cooper 1.6 depreciates slower than any other car  other than the mercedes benz c180 se and the bmw 1 series 116i se.  the cowley factory  which initially seemed far too large a production plant for just 100 000 minis  is increasingly being put to good use.  there are plans to tear down old buildings and build new ones and there are rumours that a new paint shop could be included in the plans. bmw s mini adventure has made good much of what went wrong during its stewardship of the uk car maker rover which it sold for £10 five years ago to the phoenix consortium. in 1999  when bmw still owned rover  the oxford factory was producing the award-winning rover 75. during that year  3 500 people produced 56 000 cars. last year  in the same factory  almost four times as many vehicles were produced by just 4 500 mini-workers. the mini factory s current output is equally impressive when compared with the main rover factory in longbridge  which in 1999 produced 180 000 rover cars. last year  mg rover  which employs more than 6 000 people  produced just 110 000 cars  though it hopes to land a deal with shanghai automotive industry corporation (saic) that could help double the number of cars produced at longbridge. indeed  mini is not only producing more cars than mg rover does; it remains ahead even when the current sales of land rovers and range rovers (which are made by the former rover unit that bmw sold to ford) are taken into account.
blair and blunkett sheffield trip tony blair is to join home secretary david blunkett in a visit to sheffield on thursday.  mr blunkett s conduct is being looked at to establish whether he abused his position in relation to his ex-lover. the parliamentary standards watchdog is looking at his decision to give kimberly quinn free rail tickets. he is also being investigated over the visa application of mrs quinn s ex-nanny. the visit to sheffield will be seen as a show of unity by mr blair.  on wednesday during prime minister s questions  tory leader michael howard went on the offensive over comments mr blunkett is alleged to have made in a new biography. he is understood to have made a series of criticisms about his cabinet colleagues from the prime minister down. mr howard said mr blunkett had complained he had inherited a  giant mess  when he took over at the home office from jack straw  now foreign secretary. the tory leader went on:  he doesn t stop there: he thinks the culture secretary s weak; he thinks the trade secretary doesn t think strategically and he thinks the education secretary hasn t developed as expected.  he says the prime minister doesn t like being told the truth and the chancellor - no doubt the prime minister will agree with this - is a bully.  mr blair retorted voters remembered the record of a government and no comments by politicians.  the home secretary has already admitted he was wrong to give the two first class tickets  given to him as an mp  to mrs quinn and has since paid the £180 back. he has apologised for  a genuine mistake  and says he will write to the watchdog to answer further questions. the rail tickets are meant to help mps  spouses get between westminster and their constituencies. after his inquiry  parliamentary watchdog sir philip mawer will report to the commons standards and privileges committee  the group of mps who will recommend to the full house of commons what action - if any - should be taken against mr blunkett.  the separate inquiry by ex-senior civil servant sir alan budd is investigating whether the home secretary helped fast-track a bid by mrs quinn s nanny  leoncia casalme  to stay in the uk. last week  mr blunkett won the first round of a high court battle with mrs quinn for access to her son. mr blunkett declined to comment about his own position  saying the inquiry was under way and the high court had stressed his right to privacy did not affect his job in improving security and stability. downing street has stressed mr blair s support for the home secretary.
tutu s guantanamo release call archbishop desmond tutu has called for the release of the remaining inmates at guantanamo bay and terror suspects detained without trial in the uk.  his comments follow news that all four britons held by the us in the cuban camp will be freed within weeks. the south african archbishop said detentions without trial were  unacceptable  and  distressing . twelve foreign nationals are being held indefinitely without trial in the uk under anti-terror laws. referring to the detentions in cuba  archbishop tutu told bbc news:  it is utterly unacceptable.  the rule of law is in order to ensure that those who have power don t use their power arbitrarily and every person retains their human rights until you have proven conclusively that so-and-so is in fact guilty.   moazzam begg  from birmingham  and martin mubanga  richard belmar and feroz abbasi  from london  have been held by the us at guantanamo bay for almost three years. on tuesday foreign secretary jack straw told the commons that the us had agreed to release the four after  intensive and complex discussions  over security. the britons were detained as part of the us-led  war on terror . the archbishop added:  whilst we are saying thank you that these have been released  what is happening to those left behind   we in south africa used to have a dispensation that detained people without trial and the world quite rightly condemned that as unacceptable.   now if it was unacceptable then how come it can be acceptable to britain and the united states. it is so  so deeply distressing.  following mr straw s announcement  lawyer louise christian  who represents mr abbasi and mr mubanga  said the government should have acted sooner. foreign nationals detained in the uk are being held at belmarsh and woodhill prisons. in december the house of lords  the uk s highest court  ruled that the anti-terror measures broke human rights laws. but the men are still behind bars.  archbishop tutu criticised the measures  saying:  i am opposed to any arbitrary detention that is happening  even in britain.  shami chakrabarti  director of civil rights group liberty  has called on the government to  practise what it preaches  and either free or charge the detained men. but the home office defended the measures. a spokesman said:  these individuals cannot currently be prosecuted because some evidence  such as that provided by third parties  cannot safely be disclosed in criminal proceedings without putting others at risk.  it is also currently the case that intelligence gained from covert intercepts cannot be used in a court of law.
car giant hit by mercedes slump a slump in profitability at luxury car maker mercedes has prompted a big drop in profits at parent daimlerchrysler.  the german-us carmaker saw fourth quarter operating profits fall to 785m euros ($1bn) from 2.4bn euros in 2003. mercedes-benz s woes - its profits slid to just 20m euros - obscured a strong performance from the chrysler group whose returns met market expectations. mercedes faces fierce competition in the luxury car sector from bmw and but hopes to revive its fortunes by 2006.  mercedes  profits over the period compared unfavourably with 2003 s 784m euro figure and were well below analyst expectations of 374m euros. for the year as a whole  its operating profits fell 46% to 1.6bn euros. sales of mercedes  brands fell 2% as demand cooled  while revenues were affected by the weakness of the us dollar.  the carmaker blamed the fall in profits on high launch costs for new models and losses from its mercedes smart mini-car range. mercedes is hoping to increase productivity by 3bn euros  having negotiated 500m euros in annual savings with german workers last year. the firm said it was determined to retain mercedes  position as the world s most successful luxury brand. however  daimlerchrysler s shares fell 1.5% on the news.  while all these divisions are doing well the big worries continue to surround mercedes-benz   michael rabb  an analyst with bank sal oppenheim  told reuters.  in contrast  chrysler enjoyed a 5% annual increase in unit sales while revenues - calculated in us dollars - rose 10%. the us division - whose marques include dodge and jeep - transformed a full year operating loss of 506m euros in 2003 into a 1.4bn euros profit last year.  overall  daimlerchrysler saw worldwide vehicle sales rise 8% to 4.7 million in 2004 while total revenues added 4% to 142bn euros. chrysler s strong performance helped the world s fifth largest carmaker boost net income by 400m euros to 2.5bn euros.   the year 2004 shows that our strategy works well - even in such a challenging competitive environment   said jurgen schrempp  daimlerchrysler s chairman. daimlerchrysler took a 475m euro hit in costs stemming from a defects scandal at its joint venture  japanese subsidiary fuso. daimlerchrysler last week agreed a compensation package with partner mitsubishi motors which will see it buy out its stake in fuso. looking forward  daimerchrysler s profits are expected to be slightly higher in 2005. however  it is expecting  significant improvements  in profitability in 2006 as a result of a major investment in the mercedes product range.
burglar defence guidelines issued householders who injure or even kill intruders are unlikely to be prosecuted - providing they were acting  honestly and instinctively   new guidelines say.  the law also protects those who use  something to hand  as a weapon. the leaflet  published by police and prosecutors  aims to combat confusion about current legislation  which lets people use  reasonable force . the guidance  relating to england and wales  follows a recent decision by ministers not to change the law. doing what you  honestly and instinctively  believed was necessary would be the strongest evidence of acting lawfully  the guidance said.  and the law protects those who use  something to hand  as a weapon  said the leaflet published jointly by the crown prosecution service (cps) and association of chief police officers (acpo).  as a general rule  the more extreme the circumstances and fear felt  the more force can be used lawfully in self-defence  it said  adding that householders do not have to wait to be attacked before defending themselves. but knocking someone unconscious then killing them or hurting them further  or setting a trap for an intruder without involving the police were given as examples of  excessive and gratuitous  force. the tories have called for a change in the law so householders are only prosecuted if they use  grossly disproportionate  force. their demands have been backed by former metropolitan police commissioner sir john stevens. tory frontbencher patrick mercer is now pursuing the proposal through a private member s bill in parliament.  the government instead mounted a publicity campaign to clear up public uncertainty after a review concluded no law change was necessary. home secretary charles clarke said:  i believe in that old adage  an englishman s home is his castle . that s exactly what should be the case and i believe the current law provides that.  an  informal trawl  of cps records found 11 people had been prosecuted after attacking intruders in the past 15 years  five of whom were convicted. they included a man who laid in wait for a burglar on commercial premises in cheshire  before beating him up  throwing him into a pit and setting him on fire.  a cps spokesperson said the figures were not definitive because prosecutions are not listed according to whether they were committed by a householder on an intruder. in one of britain s highest profile cases  norfolk farmer tony martin was jailed for life for murdering 16-year-old burglar fred barras  in 1999. the conviction was later reduced to manslaughter on appeal and the sentence cut to five years. mr martin was freed from prison in july 2003. the guidance published on tuesday  said the police had a duty to investigate all incidents involving a death or injury. in cases involving householders attacking intruders prosecutors and police were  determined  they would be dealt with  as swiftly and as sympathetically as possible   it said.
immigration to be election issue immigration and asylum have normally been issues politicians from the big parties have tiptoed around at election time.  but no longer. both labour and the tories have signalled their intention of making them central to their election campaigns. they have been struck by the level of concern amongst voters about the issues  with internal surveys showing they have the potential to swing large numbers of votes. that was also true at the last general election and the issue did briefly become a campaigning issue. but it sparked the probably predictable furore with claims politicians were either stoking up xenophobia or  alternatively  running scared of addressing the problem. but this time around it looks set to be one of the core battlegrounds with both the big parties competing to set out tough policies.  the tories are already committed to imposing annual limits on immigration  with a quota for asylum seekers and with applications processed outside the uk. labour has already branded the proposal unworkable but party strategists have seen the tories seizing a poll advantage over the issue.  now home secretary charles clarke has come up with alternative proposals for a points system to ensure only immigrants who can benefit the economy will be granted entry  and to kick out more failed asylum seekers. that has been attacked by the tories as too little  too late and for failing to tackle the key issue of the numbers entering the uk. the liberal democrats have not been drawn too deeply into the argument but have called for a europe-wide policy on immigration.  but  while all the parties appear to agree the time has come to properly debate and address the issue  there are already signs they will run into precisely the same problems as before. former union leader sir bill morris has already accused both the big parties of engaging in a  bidding war about who can be nastiest to asylum seekers .   my concern is that  whilst the labour party and the conservative party will take a constructive approach to the debate  right-wing political parties  picking up on statements like `burden to britain  will exploit this and create a lot of fear and uncertainty . it is precisely that concern - and the possible suggestion the issue is playing to the far right s racist agenda - that will provoke strong reactions from many concerned with this issue. the challenge for the big parties is to ensure they can engage in the debate during the cut and thrust of a general election while also avoiding that trap.
italy to get economic action plan italian prime minister silvio berlusconi will unveil plans aimed at kickstarting the country s sputtering economy on thursday night in rome.  he will present an  action plan for the development of italy  in a meeting with industrialists and trade union leaders. mr berlusconi is expected to table reforms aimed at boosting research and development (r&d) spending  and the competitiveness of small firms. also in focus will be bankruptcy laws and the slow pace of the legal system. the prime minister is scheduled to start the meeting at 1830 gmt.  the government has been accused of underfunding r&d  making it harder for italy to compete with other european nations and leading to a  brain-drain  of the country s brightest talents. analysts say that hiring and firing staff is still too difficult and expensive  hampering the development of small- and medium-sized businesses. as a result  they say  italy s corporate landscape is filled with numerous smaller companies that are often reluctant to become bigger because of all the extra hassle that would accompany the running of a larger firm. at the same time  bankruptcy laws make it difficult for failed company directors to set up new businesses and emerge from their debts  a situation that is hampering italy s entrepreneurial spirit.  the government says that it has set about tackling the problems  adding that getting growth going was the responsibility of all of italy s 60 million population. according to il sole 24 ore  italy s business newspaper  the government will focus on  opening up markets  infrastructure  research  making more incentives available  bankruptcy law  the slow pace of the justice system .  mr berlusconi has previously promised to cut taxes by 6.5bn euros ($8.6bn; £4.5bn) this year in an effort to get people and companies to spend. he has also promised to cap spending on transport  education and health so as to trim the ballooning budget deficit. italy plans to raise as much as 25bn euros from privatisations in 2005  including a partial flotation of the post office and utility enel. critics argue that these moves do not go far enough and could make italy s problems worse. limiting government spending will lead to job losses  they counter  while the income tax cuts will have a negligible effect on sentiment and ultimately favour the wealthy.  the country has been one of the eurozone s worst economic performers in recent years. growth was 1.1% in 2004  up from just 0.3% in 2003 and 0.4% in 2002 - an improvement but still a long way from ideal. at the same time  business and consumer confidence has dipped and analysts have raised concerns that what little spending there is stems from italians dipping into their savings accounts or using credit cards. without a pick up in national growth  they say  the money could eventually run out  bringing italy s economy to a juddering halt. consumer spending accounts for about two-thirds of italy s economy.
german business confidence slides german business confidence fell in february knocking hopes of a speedy recovery in europe s largest economy.  munich-based research institute ifo said that its confidence index fell to 95.5 in february from 97.5 in january  its first decline in three months. the study found that the outlook in both the manufacturing and retail sectors had worsened. observers had been hoping that a more confident business sector would signal that economic activity was picking up.   we re surprised that the ifo index has taken such a knock   said dz bank economist bernd weidensteiner.  the main reason is probably that the domestic economy is still weak  particularly in the retail trade.  economy and labour minister wolfgang clement called the dip in february s ifo confidence figure  a very mild decline . he said that despite the retreat  the index remained at a relatively high level and that he expected  a modest economic upswing  to continue.  germany s economy grew 1.6% last year after shrinking in 2003. however  the economy contracted by 0.2% during the last three months of 2004  mainly due to the reluctance of consumers to spend. latest indications are that growth is still proving elusive and ifo president hans-werner sinn said any improvement in german domestic demand was sluggish. exports had kept things going during the first half of 2004  but demand for exports was then hit as the value of the euro hit record levels making german products less competitive overseas. on top of that  the unemployment rate has been stuck at close to 10% and manufacturing firms  including daimlerchrysler  siemens and volkswagen  have been negotiating with unions over cost cutting measures. analysts said that the ifo figures and germany s continuing problems may delay an interest rate rise by the european central bank. eurozone interest rates are at 2%  but comments from senior officials have recently focused on the threat of inflation  prompting fears that interest rates may rise.
bosvelt optimistic over new deal manchester city s paul bosvelt will find out  within a month  whether he is to be offered a new one-year deal.  the 34-year-old dutch midfielder is out of contract in the summer and  although his age may count against him  he feels he can play on for another season.  i told the club i would like to stay for one more year. they promised me an answer within the next month so i am waiting to see   he said.  the main concern is my age but i think i have proved i am fit enough. bosvelt joined city from feyenoord in 2003 and at first he struggled to adapt to life in england. but his professionalism and dedication impressed manager kevin keegan.  he realised the pace of the game was faster than anything he was used to but he drove himself back into the team. he is an unsung hero   said keegan.
warning over tsunami aid website net users are being told to avoid a scam website that claims to collect cash on behalf of tsunami victims.  the site looks plausible because it uses an old version of the official disasters emergency committee webpage. however  dec has no connection with the fake site and says it has contacted the police about it. the site is just the latest in a long list of scams that try to cash in on the goodwill generated by the tsunami disaster.  the link to the website is contained in a spam e-mail that is currently circulating. the message s subject line reads  urgent tsunami earthquake appeal  and its text bears all the poor grammar and bad spelling that characterises many other phishing attempts. the web address of the fake site is decuk.org which could be close enough to the official www.dec.org.uk address to confuse some people keen to donate. patricia sanders  spokeswoman for the disaster emergency committee said it was aware of the site and had contacted the computer crime unit at scotland yard to help get it shut down. she said the spam e-mails directing people to the site started circulating two days ago shortly after the domain name of the site was registered. it is thought that the fake site is being run from romania. ms sanders said dec had contacted us net registrars who handle domain ownership and the net hosting firm that is keeping the site on the web.  dec was going to push for all cash donated via the site to be handed over to the official organisation. bt and dec s hosting company were also making efforts to get the site shut down  she said.  ms sanders said sending out spam e-mail to solicit donations was not dec s style and that it would never canvass support in this way. she said that dec hoped to get the fake site shut down as soon as possible. all attempts by the bbc news website to contact the people behind the site have failed. none of the e-mail addresses supplied on the site work and the real owner of the domain is obscured in publicly available net records. this is not the first attempt to cash in on the outpouring of goodwill that has accompanied appeals for tsunami aid. one e-mail sent out in early january came from someone who claimed that he had lost his parents in the disaster and was asking for help moving an inheritance from a bank account in the netherlands. the con was very similar to the familiar nigerian forward fee fraud e-mails that milk money out of people by promising them a cut of a much larger cash pile. other scam e-mails included a link to a website that supposedly let people donate money but instead loaded spyware on their computers that grabbed confidential information. in a monthly report anti-virus firm sophos said that two e-mail messages about the tsunami made it to the top 10 hoax list during january. another tsunami-related e-mail is also circulating that carries the zar worm which tries to spread via the familiar route of microsoft s outlook e-mail program. anyone opening the attachment of the mail will have their contact list plundered by the worm keen to find new addresses to send itself to.
mci shareholder sues to stop bid a shareholder in us phone firm mci has taken legal action to halt a $6.75bn (£3.6bn) buyout by telecoms giant verizon  hoping to get a better deal.  the lawsuit was filed on friday after qwest communications  which had an earlier offer for mci rejected  said it would submit an improved bid. mci s directors have backed verizon  despite it tabling less money. they are accused of breaching their fiduciary duties by depriving mci shareholders  of maximum value .  according the legal papers filed in a delaware court  verizon is set to pay an   unconscionable  unfair and grossly inadequate  sum for mci  which was formerly known as worldcom. qwest said on wednesday that mci had rejected a deal worth $8bn. a number of large mci shareholders expressed unhappiness at the decision  saying that verizon s offer  made up of cash  shares and dividends  undervalued the company. friday s lawsuit argues that the verizon offer makes no provision for future growth prospects and that consolidation in the us phone industry will put a premium on mci s network  assets and clients. mci s directors have argued that verizon is bigger than qwest  has fewer debts and has built a successful mobile division. chief executive michael capellas spent last week meeting with shareholders in an effort to win their backing.  in 2002  investors in the then-named worldcom lost millions when the company filed for bankruptcy following an accounting scandal. however  the firm - now renamed mci - has put its operations in order and emerged from bankruptcy protection last april. it is a long-distance and corporate phone firm  and would provide the buyer with access to a global telecommunications network and a large number of business-based subscribers. mci shares jumped on friday  hitting their highest level since april 2004 amid speculation that it would be the focus of a bidding war. a takeover of mci would be the fifth billion-dollar telecoms deal since october as companies look to cut costs and boost client bases. earlier this month  sbc communications agreed to buy its former parent and phone pioneer at&t for about $16bn.
douglas set for indian adventure actor michael douglas is to co-produce and star in an adventure film about a diamond robbery set in india.  the new picture is expected to be similar to douglas s action films of the 1980s  romancing the stone and the jewel of the nile. another hollywood star is being lined up to co-star  while the rest of the cast will be indian. aishwarya rai  star of bride and prejudice  is the  preferred choice  of the indian studio involved in the film.  on a visit to india  the 60-year-old actor said he hoped to start shooting racing the monsoon next year. douglas added that it had been inspired by a wall street journal article about india s  angadias   who courier money and diamonds around india.  the actor s own production company  further films  is working in partnership with two indian film-making concerns to bring the picture to the screen. shailendra singh  the founder of india s percept films  said there would be  a lot of india  in the movie - and that an indian train would play a big role.  the train will be a crucial part of the film. the chase and most of the stunts will be on the train   said mr singh. swashbuckling adventure film romancing the stone saw douglas s female co-star kathleen turner win a golden globe award for her performance in 1985.
muslims discuss election concerns issues that muslims should be considering before voting in the next general election are to be debated by uk community representatives.  the event is being held by the muslim association of britain (mab)  which believes muslim voters could influence the result in up to 50 constituencies. last year mab  which opposed the war in iraq  urged muslims not to vote for labour in the european elections. but a spokesman stressed the meeting was  not necessarily anti-labour .  this meeting is not anti-party in particular  it s anti-policy  it s on the issues we are going to ask muslims to vote on   mab spokesman dr azzam tamimi said of tuesday s event.   there are issues of concern to muslims  and muslims generally agree on them but have not in the past been aware of how a vote can serve these issues.  dr tamimi said the main issues muslims should consider were what he referred to as the war on iraq  the palestinian situation  the erosion of civil liberties for muslims in the uk and economic  social and education problems.  approximately 1.1m of the uk s 1.6m muslims are of voting age. previous election research has shown the overwhelming majority have traditionally voted labour  but more recent studies have suggested labour support has been falling away significantly among some muslim voters.  anger over the war in iraq has appeared to be the main reason  with many saying it was  unjustified . representatives from a number of muslim organisations will attend tuesday s event. among them will be the muslim council of britain (mcb). the chairman of the mcb s public affairs committee  sher khan  said the war in iraq would be a  significant factor  affecting muslims  voting intentions.  i think it s going to be quite significant because of the number of seats in which they could have an impact   mr khan said.  however  professor john curtice  of the university of strathclyde  is sceptical about how much difference tactical voting by muslims could make.  for the most part the labour constituencies where there s a large muslim community are relatively safe  but there are one or two that are not quite so safe   professor curtice said.  the constituencies where labour was most at risk from a muslim tactical vote were bethnal green  in east london  and rochdale in lancashire  he added. in bethnal green  former labour mp george galloway  who founded the anti-war party respect  is standing against sitting mp oona king  who had a 10 000-vote majority in 2001. in rochdale  the liberal democrats - the mainstream party a 2004 icm survey showed was benefiting most from muslim disaffection with labour - secured second place in the 2001 election  securing just under 6 000 votes fewer than labour s lorna fitzsimons. but professor curtice said the muslim anti-war vote could be split between the liberal democrats and respect  meaning neither would benefit much at the ballot box.  ironically the tories might be the beneficiaries if labour does lose seats  which is generally the case   he said. but dr tamimi said mab s intention was not to  empower  the tories.  we know the next government will be labour  but we are aiming to send a message that it will make a difference if the muslims use their vote properly.  if the next labour government has a reduced majority that s a great achievement because having a very big majority has been very harmful for politics in this country   dr tamimi said.
court halts mark morrison album premiership footballer and record company boss kevin campbell has gained a court injunction stopping r&b singer mark morrison from releasing an album.  the everton striker signed morrison to his fledging 2 wikid records label and claims he spent thousands of pounds producing his album innocent man. now he is attempting to prevent morrison releasing the album on monday through another label. but morrison vowed to ignore the order  saying  no judge is gonna stop me .  morrison  who is now as well known for his brushes with the law than his music career  rose to fame with the 1996 single return of the mack.  but the leicester singer has struggled to repeat its success following two spells in jail. one was for hiring a stand-in to complete his community service for possession of a stun gun and three-months following a nightclub fracas. he signed to mr campbell s label a year ago and has released one single  with the label saying the album was due for release on 24 january. but mr campbell said he learned that morrison planned to release the album through jet star  which is advertising it on its website. mr campbell said:  i m glad we were granted the injunction but i m completely gutted that we have had to go that far.  mark morrison was given everything he asked for by 2 wikid but it seems that he couldn t help but return to his old ways.   i ve worked hard to realise my ambition in football but had hoped that my future career would be in the music business.  i have always dreamt of starting a record label but now mark morrison has spoilt that dream for me. there is no loyalty in this business - just greed.   but morrison is determined the album will be released on monday. he said:  the injunction is ludicrous.  i signed a new deal with a new record company because i was not getting the support i needed from 2 wikid.  i was with that label for a year and in that time released just one record  which was not properly promoted. he added:  the whole world is waiting for this album and it will come out on december 27. no injunction or judge will stop it. the mack will return.  the case is set to be heard in the high court on 20 december.
oscar host rock to keep it clean oscar host chris rock said he will steer clear of bad language when he fronts the awards on 27 february.  the comedian  who recently got into trouble for poking fun at the ceremony  is renowned for his heavy use of expletives during his stand-up routine. the live ceremony will be broadcast with a transmission delay on us network abc to ensure swear words are removed.  i ve been on tv and been funny not cursing   he said during an interview for cbs network s 60 minutes show.  as far as content is concerned  i will talk about the movies. i m not really worried about it. i m sure abc might be more worried about it than me   he added.  the 40-year-old comedian caused a furore when he said in an interview with us magazine entertainment weekly recently that he hardly ever watched the oscars and labelled awards ceremonies  idiotic . the show s producers defended rock and confirmed that he would still be presenting the oscar ceremony  saying his comments were  humorous digs . meanwhile  the academy has announced that oscar-nominated actress natalie portman will present an award at the ceremony. portman  who has been nominated for a best supporting actress gong for her role in mike nichols  closer  joins a growing list of stars set to bestow an award at the ceremony including dustin hoffman  drew barrymore  renee zellweger and british-born actress kate winslet.
angry williams rejects criticism serena williams has angrily rejected claims that she and sister venus are a declining force in tennis.  the sisters ended last year without a grand slam title for the first time since 1998. but serena denied their challenge was fading  saying:  that s not fair - i m tired of not saying anything.  we ve been practising hard. we ve had serious injuries. i ve had surgery and after  i got to the wimbledon final. i don t know many who have done that.  while serena is through to the australian open semi-finals  venus went out in the fourth round  meaning she has not gone further than the last eight in her last five grand slam appearances. but serena added:  venus had a severe strain in her stomach. i actually had the same injury  but i didn t tear it the way she did.   if i would have torn it  i wouldn t have been here.  she played a player (alicia molik) that just played out of her mind and venus made some errors that she probably shouldn t have made.  serena also said people tended to forget the impact the 2003 murder of sister yetunde price had had on the family.  to top it off  we have a very  very  very  very  very close family  serena continued.  to be in some situation that we ve been placed in in the past little over a year  it s not easy to come out and just perform at your best when you realize there are so many things that are so important.  so  no  we re not declining. we re here. i don t have to win this tournament to prove anything. i know that i m out here and i know that i m one of the best players out here.
african double in edinburgh world 5000m champion eliud kipchoge won the 9.2km race at the view from great edinburgh cross country.  the kenyan  who was second when newcastle hosted the race last year  was in front from the outset. ethiopian duo gebre gebremariam and dejene berhanu made last-gasp efforts to overtake him  but kipchoge responded and a burst of speed clinched victory. gavin thompson was the first briton in 12th place while nick mccormick held of his british rivals to win the 4km race. the morpeth harrier led from the end of the first lap and ended mike skinner and andrew baddeley s hopes with a surge in the lasp lap.  my training has gone so well i wasn t really worried about the opposition asi knew i was in great shape   said mccormick  who now hopes to earn a 1 500m place in the british team for the world championships in helsinki. in the women s race  ethiopia s tirunesh dibaba won a battle with world cross country champion benita johnson to retain her title. australian johnson  who shocked her african rivals in brussels last march  looked to be on course for another win in the 6.2km race. but world 5000m champion dibaba make a telling strike for the finishing line in the final 20 metres. britons kathy butler and hayley yelling were out of contention early on.
china s shanda buys stake in sina chinese online game operator shanda interactive entertainment has bought a 20% stake in sina  the country s biggest internet portal firm.  the move may be a precursor to a full takeover  with analysts saying that a better-known international firm may also now show an interest in sina. shanda said that it may boost its stake in sina  even buying it outright. a merger would create a firm that offers online role-playing games  news  entertainment and wireless messaging.  sina said that the purchase of a stake by shanda would have no impact on its business.  the board of directors said in a statement that it would  continue to act in the best interests of all the company stakeholders  including shareholders  employees and customers . both companies are listed on the new york stock exchange s (nyse) technology-dominated nasdaq index. in a filing with the us securities and exchange commission  sina said its shares were purchased between 12 january and 10 february for about $230m. rumours about a possible takeover boosted sina s shares by more than 10% on friday. they added an extra 6.4% to $27.24 in electronic trading after the trading session had finished. and there may be more gains amid bid speculation when trading resumes in new york on tuesday after monday s public holiday  analysts forecast.  there could still be some potential parties that could still counter bid   said wallace cheung  an analyst at dbs vickers.  even though shanda has 20% of sina  they still have quite a long way to take full control.  however  mr cheung noted that a foreign company trying to take control of a chinese internet portal firm  with its ability to filter and pass on news  may not be viewed very favourably by beijing.
pixies take on reading and leeds pixies  foo fighters and iron maiden will headline this summer s leeds and reading festivals.  the trio of rock heavyweights will top the bill for the three-day events at bramham park  near wetherby  and at richfield avenue  reading. they are the pixies  and iron maiden s only uk festival gigs  while foo fighters are also at t in the park. the killers  razorlight and queens of the stone age are also playing the twin festivals  to be held on 26-28 august. other acts in this year s line-up include the charlatans  marilyn manson and kings of leon. pete doherty s band babyshamblers will appear on the nme/radio one stage along with kasabian  black rebel motorcycle club and bloc party.  organiser mean fiddler said more acts were still to be confirmed for the summer event.  we are all very excited to be going back to reading and intend to have a fantastic time   said iron maiden s bruce dickinson.  we re sure fans will too.  it will the first time the veteran british metal band have played reading in 23 years. at leeds  iron maiden will headline the first day of the festival on the friday  pixies will follow on saturday and the foo fighters will close the event on sunday. the pixies will headline the first day of reading  while foo fighters will play on sunday and iron maiden will close the event. weekend tickets are now on sale priced at £125 each.
joke e-mail virus tricks users a virus that disguises itself as a joke is spreading rapidly across the net.  anti-virus firms are issuing high-level warnings about the new version of the bagle e-mail program that seems to be catching a lot of people out. the windows virus grabs e-mail addresses from microsoft outlook and uses its own mail sending software to spread itself to new victims. when it infects a machine  the bagle variant turns off security measures that usually protect pcs.  the new variant is called bagle.at  bagle.bb and bagle.au and the attachment bearing the virus code is labelled as either  joke  or  price .  the body of the virus usually contains nothing but a smiley or emoticon. the virus can strike computers running windows 95  98  me  nt  2000 and xp. users will be infected if they open the attachment that travels with the e-mail. as well as plundering microsoft outlook for e-mail addresses to send itself to  bagle.at also tries to turn off the firewall and security centre services on windows xp machines. bbc news online has received five warnings about the virus from security companies. finnish company f-secure gave the virus its second highest threat level.  we ve had several reports all over the world   said mikko hypponen  director of anti-virus research for f-secure. security firm network box said that it stopped more than 30 000 copies an hour of the virus as the outbreak reached a peak. black spider said it had stopped more than 1 million copies of bagle.at since the outbreak began at 0630 bst (0530 gmt). anti-virus firms urged users to be wary of unexpected e-mail messages bearing attachments and to update their software to ensure they are protected against the latest threats.
khodorkovsky ally denies charges a close associate of former yukos boss mikhail khodorkovsky has told a court that fraud charges levelled against him are  false .  platon lebedev has been on trial alongside mr khodorkovsky since june in a case centring around the privatisation of a fertiliser firm. the pair claim they are being punished by the authorities for the political ambitions of mr khodorkovsky. mr lebedev said there were  absurd contradictions  in the case. opening his defence  he said he could not see the legal basis of the charges he faced  which also include allegations of tax evasion.  to my embarrassment  i could not understand the file of complaints against me   he told a moscow court. mr lebedev headed the menatep group  the parent company of yukos.  mr lebedev and mr khodorkovsky  who each face a possible 10 year jail sentence if convicted  will be questioned by a judge over the next few days. mr khodorkovsky began his testimony last week  telling the court that he objected to the way that the  running of a normal business has been presented as a work of criminal fiction . the charges are seen by supporters as politically motivated and part of a drive by russian president vladimir putin to rein in the country s super-rich business leaders  the so-called oligarchs. yukos has been presented with a $27.5bn (£13bn) tax demand by the russian authorities and its key yugansk division was auctioned off to part settle the bill. the company s effort to gain bankruptcy protection in the us - in a bid to win damages for the sale - were dismissed by a court in texas.
us interest rates increased to 2% us interest rates are to rise for the fourth time in five months  in a widely anticipated move.  the federal reserve has raised its key federal funds rate by a quarter percentage point to 2% in light of mounting evidence that the us economy is regaining steam. us companies created twice as many jobs as expected in october while exports hit record levels in september. analysts said a clear-cut victory for president bush in last week s election paved the way for a rise. another rise could be in store for december  some economists warned.  the fed s open market committee - which sets interest rate policy in the us - voted unanimously in favour of a quarter point rise. the fed has been gradually easing rates up since the summer  with quarter percentage point rises in june  august and september.  the central bank has been acting to restrain inflationary pressures while being careful not to obstruct economic growth. the fed did not rule out raising rates once again in december but noted that any future increases would take place at a  measured  pace. in a statement  the fed said that long-term inflation pressures remained  well contained  while the us economy appeared to be  growing at a moderate pace despite the rise in energy prices . financial analysts broadly welcomed the fed s move and shares traded largely flat. the dow jones industrial average closed down 0.89 points  or 0.01%  at 10 385.48.  recent evidence has pointed to an upturn in the us economy. us firms created 337 000 jobs last month  twice the amount expected  while exports reached record levels in september. the economy grew 3.7% in the third quarter  slower than forecast  but an improvement on the 3.3% growth seen in the second quarter. analysts claimed the fed s assessment of future economic growth was a positive one but stressed that the jury was still out on the prospect of a further rise in december.   let s wait until we see how growth and employment bear up under the fourth quarter s energy price drag before concluding that the fed has more work to do in 2005   said avery shenfeld  senior economist at cibc world markets.   i think the federal reserve does not want to rock the boat and is using a gradual approach in raising the interest rate   said sung won sohn  chief us economist for wells fargo bank.  the economy is doing a bit better right now but there are still some concerns about geopolitics  employment and the price of oil   he added. the further rise in us rates is unlikely to have a direct bearing on uk monetary policy. the bank of england (boe) has kept interest rates on hold at 4.75% for the past three months  leading some commentators to argue that rates may have peaked. in a report published on wednesday  the bank said that with rates at their current level  inflation would rise to its 2% target within two years. however  boe governor mervyn king warned only last month that the era of consistently low inflation and low unemployment may be coming to an end.
high fuel costs hit us airlines two of the largest airlines in the us - american and southwest - have blamed record fuel prices for their disappointing quarterly results.  american airlines  parent amr reported a loss of $387m (£206m) for the fourth quarter of 2004  against a $111m loss for the same period a year earlier. meanwhile  southwest airlines saw its fourth-quarter 2004 profits fall 15% to $56m  against $66m a year earlier. both said high fuel bills would continue to pressure revenues in 2005. american  the world s biggest airline by some measures  said it expected to report a loss for the first quarter of 2005. southwest  which has the highest market value of any us carrier  said it would remain profitable despite high fuel prices.  amr s shares were flat in wednesday morning trading on the new york stock exchange  as the results were slightly better than analysts had anticipated. amr s chief executive gerard arpey said the airline s difficulties reflected the situation within the industry.  amr s results for the fourth quarter of 2004 reflect the economic woes that plagued the airline industry throughout 2004 - in particular  high fuel prices and a tough revenue environment   he said. for the full year  amr posted a loss of $761m  lower than 2003 s $1.2bn loss and an indication that the airline has successfully cut costs. amr added that as part of its cost cutting measures  it is postponing the delivery of 54 boeing jets. shares in southwest fell 65 cents to $14.35 as analysts voiced their disappointment.  the results came in below our already conservative estimate for the quarter   said ray neidl  an analyst at calyon securities. both american and southwest have been squeezed by cut-throat competition in the us airline industry  as a glut of available seats has led to fierce price reductions.
blunkett unveils policing plans people could be given the mobile phone number of their local bobby under an overhaul of policing in england and wales unveiled by david blunkett.  the plans include a dedicated policing team for each neighbourhood and a 10 point compulsory customer charter. the home secretary said targets would be put in place to ensure that the public got a good response from police. local people would also be able to  trigger  action on specific problems if they felt nothing was being done. local councillors would have to show certain conditions had been met before invoking the power. and police could refuse the request if the complaints were frivolous  would only cause annoyance or would pose too heavy a burden on resources.  mr blunkett said a new three digit number would be created for non-emergency phone calls to police. the best performing police services would get more cash and extra freedoms  he said  but he would not shirk from stepping in where the public was being failed. the home secretary s powers to suspend or sack chief constables are being reviewed after mr blunkett s battle with humberside chief david westwood over intelligence failures on soham murderer ian huntley.  opposition parties also want more local policing to tackle nuisance behaviour and other crime but they accuse ministers of tying the police up with paperwork. tory spokesman david davis said the proposals were  little more than a taxpayer-funded pr exercise  ahead of a general election predicted for next may.  police forces were already  buried  under existing government initiatives and there was little in the latest plans to reassure them   said mr davis. earlier lib dem home affairs spokesman mark oaten said the government was right to want to increase the links between local people and the police.  but these measures will only work if they re matched with a cut in the amount of paperwork - and investment in modern equipment to keep the police out on the streets.   before delivering a statement to mps  mr blunkett was joined by tony blair at welling school  in south east london  which is at the heart of a community policing initiative. mr blunkett said he wanted  to go back to a time when i was very young  when you expected the police to be part of the community and the community to be part of policing and where people were joined together in partnership making it work . the prime minister said the law-abiding citizen should be in charge of the community and  not the minority who want to cause trouble .  mr blunkett already boasts about producing record police numbers. he has also started to recruit 25 000 community support officers (csos) and the new plans would allow all police forces to give them the power to detain suspects. an extra £50m was promised on tuesday so 2 000 new csos can be recruited now rather than next year. within two years  every force will be expected to keep to a  coppers  contract  on what kind of service the public can expect. a mori poll this summer suggested policing  unlike health and education  was the one major public service where people were less satisfied the more contact they had with it. the plans also include the idea of allowing people join police forces at different levels rather than the traditional way of making everybody spend specific amounts of time as a constable before being promoted. there will also be  specific exercises  to encourage black and asian people to join the police at senior ranks.
fed chief warning on us deficit federal reserve chairman alan greenspan has warned that allowing huge us budget deficits to continue could have  severe  consequences.  speaking to the house budget committee he urged congress to take action to cut the deficit  such as increasing taxes. while the us economy is growing at a  reasonably good pace  he warned that budget concerns were clouding the economic outlook for the us. pension and healthcare costs posed the greatest risks to the economy  he said.  the government program faces severe financial strains in coming decades as the massive baby-boom generation retires.  i fear that we may have already committed more physical resources to the baby-boom generation in its retirement years than our economy has the capacity to deliver. if existing promises need to be changed  those changes should be made sooner rather than later   mr greenspan said. he also warned that unless the nation sees unprecedented rises in productivity  retirement and health programmes would need  significant  changes. he called on congress to cut promised benefits for retirees  as the promised benefits for the soon-to-retire baby boom generation were much larger than the government could afford.  meanwhile any move to narrow the deficit gap by raising taxes could pose a significant risk to the economy by dampening growth and spending  he added. he also urged congress to reinstate lapsed rules that require tax cuts and spending to be offset elsewhere in the budget in an effort to prevent the us heading further into the red. despite the dire warnings  mr greenspan did offer some good news for the short term. as us growth gathers steam and incomes rise that should lead to a narrowing of the deficit. recent increases in defence and homeland security spending were also not expected to continue indefinitely  which should cut some costs. since president george w bush came to office the federal budget has swung from a record surplus to a record deficit of $412bn last year.
rock star sued by ex-girlfriend motley crue guitarist mick mars is being sued by his ex-girlfriend for $10 million (£5.4 million)  claiming he broke a promise to take care of her.  the woman  robin mantooth  said mars promised her repeatedly that he would provide financial support in the event of the couple breaking up. when they split in december  mantooth says mars denied any such agreement. she is asking a los angeles court to award her half the musician s property  a monthly allowance and damages. mantooth added that the pair became lovers in 1990  after which she abandoned her career as a documentary film-maker to move in with the guitarist at his malibu home.  she is also claiming that mars  53  has failed to provide her with any material support since they ceased to be a couple. motley crue recently reunited after being apart for a period of five years. they originally formed in the early 1980s and scored six hits in the uk  including girls girls girls in 1987. they are embarking on a world tour later this year which will take in 60 cities across the us  europe  asia and australia. mars - real name bob allen deal - underwent hip replacement surgery in october. he suffers from a degenerative rheumatic disease which causes ligaments and tendons to attach to the bone.
souped-up wi-fi is on the horizon super high-speed wireless data networks could soon be in use in the uk.  the government s wireless watchdog is seeking help on the best way to regulate the technology behind such networks called ultra wideband (uwb). ofcom wants to ensure that the arrival of uwb-using devices does not cause problems for those that already use the same part of the radio spectrum. uwb makes it possible to stream huge amounts of data through the air over short distances. one of the more likely uses of uwb is to make it possible to send dvd quality video images wirelessly to tv screens or to let people beam music to media players around their home. the technology has the potential to transmit hundreds of megabits of data per second. uwb could also be used to create so-called personal area networks that let a person s gadgets quickly and easily swap data amongst themselves. the technology works over a range up to 10 metres and uses billions of short radio pulses every second to carry data. at the recent consumer electronics show in las vegas products with uwb chips built-in got their first public airing.  currently  use of uwb is only allowed in the uk under a strict licencing scheme.  we re seeking opinion from industry to find out whether or not we should allow uwb on a licence-exempt basis   said a spokesman for ofcom.  companies have until 24 march to respond. in april the ec is due to start its own consultation on europe-wide adoption of uwb. the cross-europe body for radio regulators  known as the european conference of postal and telecommunications administrations (cept)  is carrying out research for this harmonisation programme. early sight of the cept work has caused controversy as some think it over-emphasises uwb s potential to interfere with existing users. by contrast a preliminary ofcom report found that it would be quite straight-forward to deploy uwb without causing problems for those that already use it. the ofcom spokesman said it was considering imposing a  mask  or set of technical restrictions on uwb-using devices.  we would want these devices to have very strict controls on power levels so they can not transmit a long way or over a wide area   he said. despite the current restrictions the technology is already being used. cambridge-based ubisense has about 40 customers around the world using the short-range radio technology  said david theriault  standards and regulatory liaison for ubisense. he said that uwb was driving novel ways to interact with computers.  it s like having a 3d mouse all the time   he said. he said that european decisions on what to do with uwb allied with ieee decisions on the exact specifications for it would help drive adoption. prior to its adoption as a way for gadgets and computers to communicate  uwb was used as a sensing technology. it is used to spot such things as cracks under the surface of runways or to help firemen detect people through walls.
file-swappers ready new network legal attacks on websites that help people swap pirated films have forced the development of a system that could be harder to shut down.  one site behind the success of the bittorrent file-swapping system is producing its own software that avoids the pitfalls of the earlier program. a test version of the new exeem program will be released in late january. but doubts remain about the new networks ability to ensure files being swapped are  quality copies .  in late december movie studios launched a legal campaign against websites that helped people swap pirated movies using the bittorrent network. the legal campaign worked because of the way that bittorrent is organised. that file-sharing system relies on links called  trackers  that point users to others happy to share the file they are looking for. shutting down sites that listed trackers crippled the bittorrent network. one of the sites shut down by the legal campaign was suprnova.org which helped boost the popularity of the bittorrent system by checking that trackers led to the movies or tv programmes they claimed to.  now the man behind suprnova.org  who goes by the nickname sloncek  is preparing to release software for a new file-swapping network dubbed exeem. in an interview with novastream web radio  sloncek said exeem would combine ideas from the bittorrent and kazaa file-sharing systems. like bittorrent  exeem will have trackers that help point people toward the file they want. like kazaa these trackers will be held by everyone. there will be no centrally maintained list. this  said sloncek  should make the system less vulnerable to legal action aimed at stopping people swapping pirated movies and music. the exeem software has been under development for a few months and is currently being tested by a closed group of users. an early public version of the software should be available before february. sloncek said that currently only a windows version of the software was in development. there were no plans for a linux or mac version. he said that costs of writing the software will be paid for by adverts appearing in the finished version of the program. despite suprnova administrator sloncek s involvement with exeem  the basic technology appears to have been developed by a firm called swarm systems that is based on caribbean island saint kitts and nevis.  users of the exeem system will be able to rate files being swapped to help stop the spread of fake files  sloncek told novastream.  dr johan pouwelse  a researcher at the delft university of technology who studies peer-to-peer networks  said exeem was the next evolution in file-sharing systems. but  he said  it would struggle to be as popular as bittorrent and suprnova because early versions were not taking enough care to make sure good copies of files were being shared.  exeem cannot prevent pollution   he said.  the rating system in exeem seems flawed because it is easy to insert both fake files and fake ratings   he said. studies have shown that organisations working for record labels and movie studios have worked to undermine kazaa by putting in fakes. by contrast moderators on suprnova made sure files being shared were high quality.  the moderators are the difference between having a system that works and one that s full of crap like kazaa   he said.  there is a fundamental tension between distribution and integrity   he said. mr pouwelse said that future versions of file-sharing systems are likely to incorporate some kind of distributed reputation system that lets moderators prove who they are to the network and rate which files are worth downloading. when big files were being shared moderation systems were key  said mr pouwelse. he added that the legal attacks on bittorrent had driven people away from sites such as suprnova but many users had simply migrated to other tracker listing sites many of which have seen huge increases in traffic.  it s hard to compete with free   he said. no-one from the motion picture association of america was immediately available for comment on the file-sharing development.
three djs replace peel radio show the late john peel s bbc radio 1 show is to be succeeded in february by three shows hosted by three djs focusing on diverse  non-commercial music.  huw stephens  ras kwame and rob da bank will each host the mid-week  late-night timeslot  showcasing uk talent. radio 1 said the show would not try to replace peel  but would rise to the  challenge  of  keeping his legacy alive  with unpredictable music. peel died after suffering a heart attack in peru in october. radio 1 said the three djs had been chosen for their  in-depth musical knowledge across a variety of musical genres . rob da bank has been hosting the john peel show since the dj s death. he is also one of the hosts of the blue room  an early morning weekend show that plays a mix of old and new electronic and dance music. huw stephens is currently one half of the radio 1 thursday night show bethan and huw in wales  which explores new music  especially up and coming acts breaking through in wales. and ras kwame is the host of 100% homegrown on radio 1 s digital station 1xtra. his show is dedicated to showcasing the best of uk black music and broadcasts live sessions  often giving new artists their first chance to perform on live national radio.  all of the three djs will continue to host their current shows on radio 1.  it is widely accepted that john peel can never be replaced   said the radio station. it added that one music would support both signed and unsigned talent  and said:  it will seek out those making music for music s sake rather than for commercial success.  above all it will provide support to emerging genres of music and styles that have not yet and may never reach the mainstream.   one music is not new to radio 1 as it already exists as a website  offering advice on aspects of the music industry  such as recording a demo and signing a record contract. radio 1 s controller  andy parfitt  said:  we believe that by having a series of djs hosting a selection of shows under the one music title  we will ensure that his legacy lives on.  stephens said he grew up  listening to john  and that it was a  massive honour  to continue peel s work championing new music. the show will be broadcast from 1 february on tuesdays  wednesdays and thursdays from 2300 gmt - 0100 gmt.
mixed signals from french economy the french economy picked up speed at the end of 2004  official figures show - but still looks set to have fallen short of the government s hopes.  according to state statistics body insee  growth for the three months to december was a seasonally-adjusted 0.7-0.8%  ahead of the 0.6% forecast. if confirmed  that would be the best quarterly showing since early 2002. it leaves gdp up 2.3% for the full year  but short of the 2.5% which the french government had predicted.  despite the apparent shortfall in annual economic growth  the good quarterly figures - a so-called  flash estimate  - mark a continuing trend of improving indicators for the health of the french economy. the government is reiterating a 2.5% target for 2005  while the european central bank is making positive noises for the 12-nation eurozone as a whole. also on friday  france s industrial output for december was released  showing 0.7% growth.  the numbers are good   said david naude  economist at deutsche bank.  they send a positive signal of a rebound in output... and open the way for a continuation in that trend into the new year.  service sector activity improved in january  hitting a seven-month high. but unemployment remains high at about 10%.
ring of fire hit co-writer dies merle kilgore  co-writer of the country hit ring of fire  has died of congestive heart failure aged 70.  he started out as a singer and songwriter before going into music management  looking after country star hank williams jr. he wrote ring of fire with june carter cash  the future wife of johnny cash who went on to score his most popular hit with the track. kilgore had heart surgery in 2004 and was also diagnosed with lung cancer. his death has been attributed to treatment he was undergoing for the cancer. his first self-penned top 10 hit was dear mama in 1959.  one of the first songs he wrote for other artists was wolverton mountain  which sold 10 million copies when recorded by claude king. he then wrote ring of fire with june carter cash  which was about her unrequited love for johnny  who she later married. it was first recorded by her younger sister anita carter before johnny went on to make such a success of it. june carter cash previously said it upset her husband when kilgore talked about the song without crediting her and believed he should not have been credited on it. last year  kilgore turned up an awards dinner in a wheelchair expecting to honour hank williams jr  but instead he was the surprise recipient of a lifetime achievement award from the international entertainment buyers association.
super size me wins writers  award super size me director morgan spurlock has won the writers guild of america s award for documentary feature writing.  the oscar-nominated film followed spurlock as he ate only mcdonald s fast food for an entire month. spurlock was given the award at a special ceremony at the roosevelt hotel in hollywood on tuesday. organisers said the rising popularity of documentary films led them to honour a writer for a documentary screenplay for the first time.  producer brian grazer presented the award to spurlock and the film s backers  roadside attractions  samuel goldwyn films and showtime independent films. spurlock set out to discover the effect of living on nothing but mcdonald s for a month  upgrading to supersize portions when offered. the film followed his 25lb weight gain and the health effects on his body  including his liver and cholesterol levels. mcdonald s announced it was to scrap its  supersized  meals last year  but denied the move was as a result of the negative publicity created by spurlock s film. spurlock was given his award on the same day the european court of human rights ruled that two uk activists should have been given legal aid in their long fight against a mcdonald s libel action. helen steel and david morris  from north london  dubbed the  mclibel two   were found guilty in a 1990s trial of libelling the company in a leaflet they had been handing out at the end of the case the high court in london ruled mcdonald s had been libelled and awarded the company £60 000 in damages  later reduced to £40 000 on appeal. but he found the leaflet was true in some aspects.
beckham relief as real go through david beckham expressed his relief at real madrid s passage to the champions league knockout phase.  after real s 3-0 win at roma  the england skipper admitted another season of under-achievement would not be tolerated at the bernabeu stadium. beckham said:  it s expected of madrid to get through  but it s a relief for the club and players to have won.  we lost momentum last season but we cannot afford to to go another season without winning anything.  real s finish as runners-up in their champions league group means they cannot face his old club manchester united in the next round. but real could be drawn against other premiership hopefuls  arsenal or chelsea  who won their respective groups.  it s going to be great whoever we play  even if we don t get either of the two english teams.
anglers  could face prosecution  anglers and fishermen could find themselves prosecuted under plans to crack down on animal cruelty  a committee of mps has warned.  sloppy wording of the draft animal welfare bill could leave anglers facing court even though it was not intended  the environment select committee said. the mps said they were  concerned  the government had not consulted directly on its plans to improve animal welfare. they raised complex and emotive issues which needed to be resolved  mps said.  they called for a  cast-iron guarantee  that the government consults on any plans to regulate animal industries like pet fairs and game bird rearing. the draft bill seeks to modernise and improve animal welfare legislation  and intends to protect  kept animals  and  companion  animals by setting up a  duty of care . in addition to maintaining existing cruelty offences  it creates an offence of neglect by keepers who fail to protect the animals for whom they are responsible. the bill would allow animal welfare officers to intervene to prevent harm to an animal as well as outlawing  mutilation  of animals - unless it can be demonstrated to be in the animal s best interest.  the environment select committee made 101 recommendations after hearing evidence from 51 organisations and individuals. one was a call to amend the bill so that prosecutions against those engaged in fishing were not inadvertently encouraged - even if they were to later fail.  we accept that neither commercial fishing nor recreational angling should fall within the remit of the of the draft bill and we therefore support the government s intention to exempt fishing as an activity.   but the committee said an amendment was needed to ensure cases were not brought.  however  in exempting fishing  the government should be careful to ensure that those persons who catch fish are not given  carte blanche  to inflict unnecessary suffering in the course of pursuing this activity   the committee added. the committee also said some legal protections for animals were downgraded by the bill  such as the law on abandonment of animals which  would be significantly weakened . mps urged the government to redraft clauses relating to the prosecution of cruelty offences. this was because as it stood the draft bill would allow certain acts that should be prosecuted - such as unnecessary suffering caused to an animal through neglect  or unnecessary mental suffering - to go unpunished.  committee chairman michael jack said:  any change in the law as it affects animals always arouses powerful emotions and great public interest.  this draft bill is no exception. my committee welcomes the development of an approach to animal welfare which doesn t just wait for a problem to occur but enables action to be taken to protect animals before irreversible suffering takes place.  but mr jack said the bill  very much had the feel of a  work in progress   and urged the government to guarantee that  an obligation to consult will be enshrined in law  before it extended legislative plans to areas such as pet fairs  circuses and game bird farms.  the government must work hard to take the rough edges of its initial proposals before the bill is introduced to parliament   he added.
mobile gig aims to rock 3g forget about going to a crowded bar to enjoy a gig by the latest darlings of the music press.  now you could also be at a live gig on your mobile  via the latest third generation (3g) video phones. rock outfit rooster are playing what has been billed as the first ever concert broadcast by phone on tuesday evening from a london venue. the 45-minute gig is due to be  phone cast  by the 3g mobile phone operator  3. 3g technology lets people take  watch and send video clips on their phones  as well as swap data much faster than with 2g networks like gsm. people with 3g phones in the uk can already download football and music clips on their handsets.  some 1 000 fans of the london-based band will have to pay five pounds for a ticket and need a 3g handset.   once you have paid  you can come and go as much as you like  because we expect the customers to be mobile   said 3 spokesperson belinda henderson.  it s like going to a concert hall  except that you are virtually there.  the company behind the trial hopes to learn more about how people use their video phones.  we are looking on how long people will stay on average on the streams. some people may stay the whole time  some may dip in and out   said ms henderson.  we actually expect people to dip in and out because they are mobile and they will be doing other things.  3 is looking to music as a way of persuading more people to take up the latest video phones. it is already planning regular gigs throughout 2005. and during the intermission  of course  you would still be able to make a phone call.
saudi ministry to employ women women will be employed in saudi arabia s foreign ministry for the first time this year  foreign minister prince saud al-faisal has been reported as saying.  the move comes as the conservative country inches open the door to working women. last year  crown prince abdullah  the de-facto ruler  told government departments to put plans in place for employing women. but progress has been slow  reports from the country say.  earlier this week  the local arab news said labour minister ghazi al-gosaibi had  caused uproar  when he said his ministry was having difficulty hiring women because they demanded segregated offices. the newspaper said many saudi women found his explanation  a pitiful excuse for not employing women . women now make up more than half of all graduates from saudi universities but only 5% of the workforce.  our educational reforms have created a new generation of highly-educated and professionally trained saudi women who are acquiring their rightful position in saudi society   arab news quoted prince saud as saying.  i am proud to mention here that this year we shall have women working in the ministry of foreign affairs for the first time.
cabs collect mountain of mobiles gadgets are cheaper  smaller and more common than ever. but that just means we are more likely to lose them.  in london alone over the past six months more than 63 000 mobile phones have been left in the back of black cabs  according to a survey. that works out at about three phones per cab. over the same period almost 5 000 laptops and 5 800 pdas such as palms and pocket pcs were left in licensed cabs. even the great and good are not immune to losing their beloved gadgets. jemima khan reportedly left her ipod  phone and purse in a cab and asked for them to be returned to her friend who turned out to be hugh grant. as the popularity of portable gadgets has grown  and we trust more of our lives to them  we seem to be forgetting them in ever larger numbers. the numbers of lost laptops has leapt by 71% in the last three years.  this has left londoners  or those travelling by cab in the capital  as the world s best at losing laptops  according to the research by the licensed taxi drivers association and pointsec  a mobile-data backup firm. more than twice as many laptops were left in the back of black cabs in london as in any of the nine other cities (helsinki  oslo  munich  paris  stockholm  copenhagen  chicago and sydney) where the research into lost and found gadgets was carried out. by contrast danes were most adept at losing mobile phones being seven times more likely to leave it behind in a cab than travellers in germans  norwegians and swedes. top of the range phones can carry enormous amounts of data - enough to hold hundreds of pictures or thousands of contact details. given that few people back up the data on their pc it is a fair bet that even fewer do so with the phone they carry around. you could be losing a fair chunk of your life in the back of that cab not least because many people collect numbers on their phone that they do not have anywhere else.  equally  phones let you navigate through contacts by name so many people have completely forgotten their friends  numbers and could not reconstruct them if they had to. this growing habit of losing gadgets explains the rise of firms such as retrofone which lets people buy a cheap old-fashioned phone to replace the tiny  shiny expensive one they have just lost. briton s growing love of phones has also led to the creation of the mobile equipment national database that lets you register the unique id number of your phone so it can be returned to you in the event of it being lost or stolen. according to statistics 50% of all muggings and snatch theft offences involve mobiles. millions of gadgets are now logged in the database and organisations such as transport for london regularly consult it when trying to re-unite folk with their phones and other gadgets. for the drivers  finding a mobile in the back of their cab is one of the more pleasant things many have found. the survey of what else has been left behind included a harp  a dog  a hamster and a baby.
steel firm  to cut  45 000 jobs mittal steel  one of the world s largest steel producers  could cut up to 45 000 jobs over the next five years  its chief executive has said.  the netherlands-based company is due to complete its $4.5bn acquisition of us firm isg next month  making it one of the largest global firms of its kind. however  lakshmi mittal has told investors the combined company will have to shed thousands of jobs. the indian-born magnate did not say where the job losses would fall.  mr mittal told us investors that once the acquisition of international steel group was completed  the company would aim to reduce its workforce by between 7 000 and 8 000 annually. this could see its workforce trimmed from 155 000 to 110 000 staff by 2010.  we are investing in modernisation so employees will go down   mr mittal told the conference in chicago.  mittal steel was formed last year when mr mittal s lnm holdings merged with dutch firm ispat. a combination of mittal steel and isg would have annual sales of $32bn (£16.7bn; 24.1bn euros) and a production capacity of 70 million tonnes.  a mittal steel spokeman said that no decisions on job cuts have been made yet.  we are trying to create a sustainable steel industry and if we want to do that  we have to invest in new technology   a spokesman said. mittal steel has operations in 14 countries. many of its businesses - particularly those in eastern europe - were previously state owned and have huge workforces. it employs 50 000 staff in kazakhstan alone  and has large operations in romania  the czech republic  south africa and the united states.
redford s vision of sundance despite sporting a corduroy cap pulled low over his face plus a pair of dark glasses  robert redford cuts an unmistakable figure through the star-struck crowds at sundance.  it s a rare downtown appearance for the man who started the annual festival in park city  utah back in the 1980s. now in its twenty-first year  sundance continues to grow. some 45 000 people are estimated to have descended on this small ski town with nothing but movies on the mind. it s an opportunity to meet and make deals. redford wanted sundance to be a platform for independent film-makers  but the commercial success of many showcased films have led to criticism that the festival is becoming too mainstream.  smaller festivals like slamdance and xdance  which take place during the same week in park city  are competing for sundance s limelight. but redford is not worried.  the more the merrier   he says.  the point was to create opportunities for people who may not have them.  once independent film had a place where the work could be seen  suddenly the merchants came. with them the celebrities came  then the paparazzi - and suddenly it began to take on a whole new tone   explains redford.   people started to say we had gone mainstream and hollywood  but actually hollywood came to us because suddenly there was good business in independent film   he adds. international film-makers have always been celebrated here  but 2005 is the first year a dedicated world dramatic and documentary competition is being held.  redford wants the festival to encompass viewpoints he believes the american media fails to reflect  particularly how the us is perceived internationally. he has never hidden the fact that he is a democrat. but he reserves particular disdain for the current republican administration.  it s the ability to maintain the importance of dissent in a democratic system which right now is under threat with the attitude of this administration   he says.  i think many voices are being shut down or accused of being unpatriotic if they want to express another point of view. that s very unhealthy and very dangerous.   if we take that policy into the world  there will be the same victims and the same consequences.  sundance isn t just one big screening. there are discussion panels and q&a sessions with directors tackling controversial topics like america s  culture wars  and the iraq war. while redford wishes the festival to be a forum for dissent  the profile of the audience is fairly monolithic. educated  middle class and predominantly white americans comes sundance  with views from the same end of the political spectrum - anti-war and socially liberal. but redford knows this and started the sundance tv channel in an effort to reach a wider audience.  when you look at the films here  what we are presenting is very much egalitarian. and it s about good films and good story-telling be it african america  asian  women  gay  lesbian.  sooner or later we will do away with those stereotypical labels and people will say  it s just a film by so-and so .
taylor poised for scotland return simon taylor has been named in the scotland squad for saturday s six nations clash with italy.  the 25-year-old number eight made a scoring return for edinburgh at the weekend - his first game in a year for the capital side. taylor suffered knee ligament damage playing against ireland in dublin in the 2004 six nations championship.  simon is one of scotland s truly world class players so it is a huge bonus   said team-mate chris paterson.  he brings a whole new dimension to us  especially in defence and his ability to slow the opposition ball down could be key against italy if he is involved.  taylor has turned out for english side saracens in recent weeks during a short-term loan to improve his fitness.  edinburgh were not in action during the first two weeks of this season s six nations. so taylor played the last 20 minutes of saracens  win over northampton and then 40 minutes in a friendly against south african super 12 side the cats. scotland coach matt williams is due to name his match-day 22 on thursday. both scotland and italy have lost their opening two six nations games and  just like last season s encounter which italy won  this weekend s game could turn out to be a battle to avoid the wooden spoon.  - m blair (edinburgh)  a craig (glasgow)  c cusiter (borders)  s danielli (borders)  m di rollo (edinburgh)  a henderson (glasgow)  b hinshelwood (worcester)  r lamont (glasgow)  s lamont (glasgow)  d parks (glasgow)  c paterson (edinburgh)  g ross (leeds)  h southwell (edinburgh)  s webster (edinburgh)  - r beattie (northampton)  g bulloch (glasgow  capt)  b douglas (borders)  j dunbar (leeds)  i fullarton (saracens)  s grimes (newcastle)  n hines (edinburgh)  a hogg (edinburgh)  g kerr (leeds)  n lloyd (saracens)  s murray (edinburgh)  j petrie (glasgow)  r russell (london irish)  c smith (edinburgh)  t smith (northampton)  s taylor (edinburgh)  j white (sale).
could rivalry overshadow election  tony blair and gordon brown are desperately trying to stuff the genie of their rivalry back into the bottle.  along with any number of senior cabinet colleagues  they are insisting their only job is to win the next election and govern in the best interests of britain. it is a message they are aiming directly at their backbenchers who are becoming irritated and even unnerved by the continuing claims and counter claims surrounding this alleged rift. ian gibson  for example  urged the two men to stop squabbling  declaring:  for goodness sake  sometimes you have to rise above petulance and make sure that you do your job as effectively as you can.  those with slim majorities are particularly fearful that the rift could hit their own hopes of re-election. tony blair will seek to reassure labour mps on monday evening at their first meeting of the new year at westminster - a behind-closed doors meeting which gordon brown is thought likely to also attend to show unity.  meanwhile the likes of health secretary john reid and labour peer lord haskins are warning of the electoral dangers of allowing this soap opera to continue. and they have both warned the rival camps to stop spreading the poison. lord haskins even suggested mr blair should reinstate mr brown as the central figure in the election planning.  but this particular genie is unusually reluctant to return to captivity and many fear it is simply too late to repair the damage. they believe they will be fighting the next election with the sounds of open warfare between the two men ringing in their ears. and it matters little whether the rift is real or  as some try to suggest  simply the product of newspaper headlines and westminster gossip. few in westminster actually believe that  simply because the evidence appears to contradict it.  for example  the weekend s attempts by both men to play down the divisions failed to do the trick. even as they were both insisting on their unity of purpose and claiming they would not be swayed by newspaper stories  they still managed to stir the speculation with their comments.  mr blair talked about the  new  labour manifesto - a move which seemed calculated to irritate the chancellor  who has long rejected the label. and mr brown pointedly refused to deny claims the prime minister had reneged on a deal to hand him the premiership last year. that claim was repeated in robert peston s book  a book which amply demonstrates this corrosive downing street soap opera is nowhere near its final act.  for his part  mr brown insists his only motivation was to get labour re-elected.  the trouble is  both men have fallen short of offering simple  straightforward denials of the central claims. so they have both been accused of actually making matters worse by feeding the speculation with their own behaviour. the first thing to be said is that these suggestions have not come from nowhere. they started with and are sustained by  friends  of the two men. one only had to listen to the chancellor s friend and former spin chief charlie whelan last week to understand that there is a real anger from this camp at the prime minister s apparent attempts to confound mr brown s leadership ambitions. but it is not just public pronouncements from ex-aides.  there are whispered briefings to selected journalists from both sides. it is no secret in westminster  for example  that downing street believes the chancellor is indulging in a mammoth sulk and acting in a petty and deliberately provocative manner.  then there are the actions of the men themselves. gordon brown sets out what is seen as a rival manifesto then appears to embark on his own personal campaign. the prime minister responds by scheduling his monthly press conference to clash with a keynote speech by the chancellor. meanwhile large numbers of backbench mps insist voters are either entirely uninterested in the chatter  which they believe is a media-only obsession  or that they fear for the efficient running of a government beset by such rivalry. either way  there is universal agreement that if this goes on through the general election it can only do the labour party serious damage. there are signs that the two men appreciate the dangers and both want to put a lid on all the speculation. but with probably only four months to the next election  that looks like being a particularly difficult trick to pull off.
mobiles  not media players yet  mobiles are not yet ready to be all-singing  all-dancing multimedia devices which will replace portable media players  say two reports.  despite moves to bring music download services to mobiles  people do not want to trade multimedia services with size and battery life  said jupiter. a separate study by gartner has also said real-time tv broadcasts to mobiles is  unlikely  in europe until 2007. technical issues and standards must be resolved first  said the report. batteries already have to cope with other services that operators offer  like video playback  video messaging  megapixel cameras and games amongst others. bringing music download services based on the success of computer-based download services will put more demands on battery life.  fifty percent of europeans said the size of a mobile was the most important factor when it came to choosing their phone  but more power demands tend to mean larger handsets.  mobile phone music services must not be positioned to compete with the pc music experience as the handsets are not yet ready   said thomas husson  mobile analyst at jupiter research.  mobile music services should be new and different  and enable operators to differentiate their brands and support third generation network launches.  other problems facing mobile music include limited storage on phones  compared to portable players which can hold up to 40gb of music. the mobile industry is keen to get into music downloading  after the success of apple s itunes  napster and other net music download services.  with phones getting smarter and more powerful  there are also demands to be able to watch tv on the move. in the us  services like tivo to go let people transfer pre-recorded tv content onto their phones. but  the gartner report on mobile tv broadcasting in europe suggests direct broadcasting will have to wait. currently  tv-like services  where clips are downloaded  are offered by several european operators  like italy s tim and 3. mobile tv will have to overcome several barriers before it is widely taken up though  said the report.  various standards and ways of getting tv signals to mobiles are being worked on globally. in europe  trials in berlin and helsinki are making use of terrestrial tv masts to broadcast compressed signals to handsets with extra receivers. a service from the norwegian broadcasting corporation lets people watch tv programmes on their mobiles 24 hours a day. the service uses 3gp technology  one of the standards for mobile tv. but at the end of 2004  the european telecommunications institute (etsi) formally adopted digital video broadcasting handheld (dvb-h) as the mobile tv broadcasting standard for europe. operators will be working on the standard as a way to bring real-time broadcasts to mobiles  as well as trying to overcome several other barriers. the cost and infrastructure needs to set up the services will need to be addressed. handsets also need to be able to work with the dvb-h standard. tv services will have to live up to the expectations of the digital tv generation too  which expects good quality images at low prices  according to analysts. people are also likely to be put off watching tv on such small screens  said gartner. digital video recorders  like europe s sky+ box  and video-on-demand services mean people have much more control over what tv they watch. as a result  people may see broadcasting straight to mobiles as taking away that control. more powerful smartphones like the xda ii  nokia 6600  sonyericsson p900 and the orange e200  offering web access  text and multimedia messaging  e-mail  calendar and gaming are becoming increasingly common. a report by analysts instat/mdr has predicted that smartphone shipments will grow by 44% over the next five years. it says that smartphones will make up 117 million out of 833 million handsets shipped globally by 2009.
ireland surge past scots ireland maintained their six nations grand slam ambitions with an impressive victory over scotland at murrayfield.  hugo southwell s try gave the scots an early 8-0 lead but scores from locks malcolm o kelly and paul o connell put the visitors in command by half-time. a third try from wing denis hickie and third penalty from ronan o gara  who kicked 13 points  extended the lead. jon petrie scored a second try for scotland but late scores from john hayes and gavin duffy sealed victory. after two hard-earned away victories  eddie o sullivan  side can now look forward to welcoming england to lansdowne road in a fortnight. scotland will try to give their coach matt williams a first six nations victory when italy come to edinburgh  but they again struggled to turn pressure into points. the home side started with tremendous intensity and dominated territory and possession in the opening 10 minutes. a powerful charge from flanker jason white was carried on by ali hogg and when ireland conceded a penalty close to their own line  scotland kicked it to touch. the irish defence foiled the home side on that occasion  but a stray hand in a ruck allowed paterson to stroke over a penalty in the eighth minute.  if that was a paltry reward for their early pressure  scotland got the try they deserved when paterson s searing break and andy craig s pass sent southwell streaking to the right corner. paterson was off target with the conversion and fly-half dan parks then missed a presentable drop-goal attempt. ireland got themselves on the scoreboard with an o gara penalty and by the 24th minute the visitors were ahead. stuart grimes pulled down o kelly at a line-out  ireland kicked the penalty to touch and from the set-piece  the big lock was driven over by the rest of his pack.  o gara added the conversion and a further penalty  after shane horgan almost grabbed a second try from o gara s chip to the corner  only for the ball to spill from his hand. but ireland still delivered a hammer blow to scotland s hopes just before the interval. o connell - skipper in the absence of brian o driscoll - powered through parks  weak tackle after a free-kick from a scrummage to burrow over.  scotland suffered a further blow on the resumption when ireland flanker johnny o connor won another vital turnover  and o gara s basketball pass sent hickie over in the left corner. o gara converted and then thumped over a 40m penalty to give the visitors a commanding 28-8 advantage. scotland looked bereft of ideas but a half-break from paterson sparked them back to life just before the hour. stuart grimes won a line-out and a well-worked move saw petrie scuttle round the side of the ruck to dive over in the left corner. but it proved a false dawn  and ireland reasserted their authority in the final 10 minutes. peter stringer and o kelly combined to put giant prop hayes over in the right corner before replacement gavin duffy scorched away on the left  david humphreys adding the final flourish with a touchline conversion.  : c paterson; s danielli  a craig  h southwell  s lamont; d parks  c cusiter; t smith  g bulloch (capt)  g kerr; s grimes  s murray; j white  a hogg  j petrie.  r russell  b douglas  n hines  j dunbar  m blair  g ross  b hinshelwood.  g murphy; g dempsey  s horgan  k maggs  d hickie  r o gara  p stringer; r corrigan  s byrne  j hayes  m o kelly  p o connell  s easterby  j o connor  a foley.  f sheahan  m horan  d o callaghan  e miller  g easterby  d humphreys  g duffy.  joel jutge (france)
france starts digital terrestrial france has become the last big european country to launch a digital terrestrial tv (dtt) service.  initially  more than a third of the population will be able to receive 14 free-to-air channels. despite the long wait for a french dtt roll-out  the new platform s backers hope to emulate the success of its uk free-to-air counterpart  freeview. recent figures from the uk s regulator ofcom showed freeview was more popular than the sky digital satellite service. in the three months to september 2004  almost five times as many people signed up to the uk s free-to-air dtt service compared with sky. almost 60% of uk households have gone digital on at least one television set through cable  satellite or freeview.  the french dtt platform is known as tnt  which stands for tv numerique terrestre or digital terrestrial television. but it is being branded as television numerique pour tous  or  digital television for all . tnt is a joint venture between public broadcaster france televisions and a handful of cable and satellite operators. digital terrestrial tv will launch as a free-to-air platform to start with  adding pay-tv channels later. thirty-five contenders have bid for an additional eight frequencies on top of the 14 already allocated.  a couple of years ago  dtt had a bad image   said olivier gerolami  chief operating officer of tnt.   but everyone s impressed with dtt in the uk  italy and germany  and they realise it is a very good idea.  france is the poorest market in europe in terms of free-to-air national channels  so it has the potential to be one of the biggest dtt markets   mr gerolami added in remarks quoted by the us entertainment industry paper variety. tnt aims to reach 35% of france s population at launch  from 17 transmission sites. the transmission area will initially include paris  lille  lyon and toulouse. eventually there will be 115 sites reaching over 80% of homes. digital terrestrial set-top boxes are available from as little as 70 euros (£50). a recent survey by mediametrie found that 70% of people interviewed were aware of dtt  and 25% were planning to buy a digital receiver. consumer electronics companies such as nokia  sagem  sony and thomson are gearing up for production. the conseil superieur de l audiovisuel (csa)  the french broadcasting regulator  said:  following the recent success of freeview in the uk  some manufacturers are optimistic about sales prospects . media analysts believe that initially the majority of viewers will buy inexpensive set-top boxes that are unable to support interactive services. the csa said the current aim of reaching 85% of the population by 2007 was achievable  but the future of the remaining tv viewers required action by the public sector. for the most part  they are people living in mountainous or border areas  which will remain beyond the reach of digital terrestrial tv for years.  up to 15 pay-tv channels will launch on dtt between september 2005 and march 2006. leading pay-tv operators canal plus and tps have submitted bids to market bouquets of channels. free-to-air services will be broadcast in mpeg-2 format. but pay-tv operators will be allowed to broadcast in mpeg-4 - a much better compression technology - which will potentially allow for high-definition (hd) subscription services in the future. tnt expects between 700 000 and one million dtt set-top boxes to be sold in 2005.  it is difficult to tell how quickly it will take off   said mr gerolami   but we re optimistic that it will revolutionise television in france.  other analysts were less optimistic  predicting consumers would now be less likely to sign up for pay-tv subscriptions.  we think free dtt could put brakes on the underlying growth of pay-tv in france   said henri de bodinat  vice-president of the arthur d. little consultancy.
profits jump at china s top bank industrial and commercial bank (icbc)  china s biggest lender  has seen an 18% jump in profits during 2004.  the increase in earnings has allowed the firm to write off bad loans and pave the way for a state bailout and eventual stock-market listing. china is trying to clean up its banking system  which is weighed down by billions of dollars of unpaid loans. it has already pumped $45bn (£24bn) into two of its largest banks  and has identified icbc as a recipient of aid. icbc s profits were 74.7bn yuan ($9bn; £4.8bn) in 2004  the bank said in a statement. the percentage of non-performing loans dropped to 19.1%  down about 2 percentage points. icbc was founded in 1984 and had total assets of 5.3 trillion yuan at the end of 2003. china committed to gradually opening up its banking sector when it joined the world trade organisation in 2002.
giant waves damage s asia economy governments  aid agencies  insurers and travel firms are among those counting the cost of the massive earthquake and waves that hammered southern asia.  the worst-hit areas are sri lanka  india  indonesia and thailand  with at least 23 000 people killed. early estimates from the world bank put the amount of aid needed at about $5bn (£2.6bn)  similar to the cash offered central america after hurricane mitch. mitch killed about 10 000 people and caused damage of about $10bn in 1998. world bank spokesman damien milverton told the wall street journal that he expected an aid package of financing and debt relief.  tourism is a vital part of the economies of the stricken countries  providing jobs for 19 million people in the south east asian region  according to the world travel and tourism council (wttc). in the maldives islands  in the indian ocean  two-thirds of all jobs depend on tourism.  but the damage covers fishing  farming and businesses too  with hundreds of thousands of buildings and small boats destroyed by the waves. international agencies have pledged their support; most say it is impossible to gauge the extent of the damage yet. the international monetary fund (imf) has promised rapid action to help the governments of the stricken countries cope.   the imf stands ready to do its part to assist these nations with appropriate support in their time of need   said managing director rodrigo rato. only sri lanka and bangladesh currently receive imf support  while indonesia  the quake s epicentre  has recently graduated from imf assistance. it is up to governments to decide if they want imf help. other agencies  such as the asian development bank  have said that it is too early to comment on the amount of aid needed. there is no underestimating the size of the problem  however. the united nations  emergency relief coordinator  jan egeland  said that  this may be the worst national disaster in recent history because it is affecting so many heavily populated coastal areas... so many vulnerable communities.  many people will have [had] their livelihoods  their whole future destroyed in a few seconds.  he warned that  the longer term effects many be as devastating as the tidal wave or the tsunami itself  because of the risks of epidemics from polluted drinking water.  insurers are also struggling to assess the cost of the damage  but several big players believe the final bill is likely to be less than the $27bn cost of the hurricanes that battered the us earlier this year.   the region that s affected is very big so we have to check country-by-country what the situation is   said serge troeber  deputy head of the natural disasters department at swiss re  the world s second biggest reinsurance firm.  i should assume  however  that the overall dimension of insured damages is below the storm damages of the us   he said. munich re  the world s biggest reinsurer  said:  this is primarily a human tragedy. it is too early for us to state what our financial burden will be.  allianz has said it sees no significant impact on its profitability. however  a low insurance bill may simply reflect the general poverty of much of the region  rather than the level of economic devastation for those who live there.  the international federation of the red cross and red crescent societies told the reuters news agency that it was seeking $6.5m for emergency aid.   the biggest health challenges we face is the spread of waterborne diseases  particularly malaria and diarrhoea   the aid agency was quoted as saying. the european union has said it will deliver 3m euros (£2.1m; $4.1m) of aid  according to the wall street journal. the eu s humanitarian aid commissioner  louis michel  was quoted as saying that it was key to bring aid  in those vital hours and days immediately after the disaster . other countries also are reported to have pledged cash  while the us state department said it was examining what aid was needed in the region. getting companies and business up and running also may play a vital role in helping communities recover from the weekend s events.  many of the worst-hit areas  such as sri lanka  thailand s phuket island and the maldives  are popular tourist resorts that are key to local economies.  december and january are two of the busiest months for the travel in southern asia and the damage will be even more keenly felt as the industry was only just beginning to emerge from a post 9/11 slump. growth has been rapid in southeast asia  with the world tourism organisation figures showing a 45% increase in tourist revenues in the region during the first 10 months of 2004. in southern asia that expansion is 23%.  india continues to post excellent results thanks to increased promotion and product development  but also to the upsurge in business travel driven by the rapid economic development of the country   the wto said.  arrivals to other destinations such as... maldives and sri lanka also thrived.  in thailand  tourism accounts for about 6% of the country s annual gross domestic product  or about $8bn. in singapore the figure is close to 5%. tourism also brings in much needed foreign currency. in the short-term  however  travel companies are cancelling flights and trips. that has hit shares across asia and europe  with investors saying that earnings and economic growth are likely to slow.
ukraine strikes turkmen gas deal ukraine has agreed to pay 30% more for natural gas supplied by turkmenistan.  the deal was sealed three days after turkmenistan cut off gas supplies in a price dispute that threatened the ukrainian economy. supplies from turkmenistan account for 45% of all natural gas imported by ukraine  which has large coal deposits but no gas fields. turkmenistan is also trying to strike a similar deal with russia  which is not so dependent on its gas. turkmen president saparmurat niyazov  who signed the contract  said the turkmen side agreed to lower the price demanded by $2 per 1 000 cubic metres  bringing it down to $58. but the new price is still $14 higher than the price fixed in the contract for 2004. the head of the ukrainian state-owned naftohaz company  yury boyko  said he was  fully happy  with the deal. on friday  turkmenistan acted on a threat and shut off gas supplies to ukraine in attempt to bring the price dispute to a head. mr niyazov said that his government would insist on the same price for supplies to russia. analysts say thay may not happen as russia  the world s leading gas producer  needs the cheap turkmen gas only to relieve is state-owned gazprom from costly investment in the exploration of oil fields in siberia. turkmenistan is the second-largest gas producer in the world.
boateng to step down at election paul boateng  chief secretary to the treasury  is to step down as a labour mp at the forthcoming general election.  mr boateng  53  is to become the uk s high commissioner to south africa. he was the uk s first black cabinet minister when appointed to his post in 2002  promoted from the home office  where he had been prisons minister. mr boateng served on the greater london council before being elected to parliament in 1987  declaring  today brent south  tomorrow soweto . he will succeed the previous high commissioner  ann grant  shortly after the next election  which is widely expected to be held on 5 may. the appointment is dependent on labour s re-election.  prime minister tony blair said:  paul has been both a valued colleague and a trusted friend for many years.  he has made an immense contribution to public life in britain and i am delighted that he has agreed to continue that service to the people of britain by acting as their representative in south africa.  chancellor gordon brown said:  over the past eight years paul s contribution to the treasury and the government has been exceptional - and it has been my privilege to have worked closely with him closely at the treasury.  i congratulate paul on his new appointment.  he has displayed huge dedication to the cause of african development for many years and it is fitting that  in this year of challenge and opportunity for the african continent  paul has been given such a pivotal role in our fight against poverty and injustice.  i look forward to continuing to work with paul on this vital agenda.   mr boateng said:  i am honoured to be asked to take on this role  especially as it comes at such an integral time for our relationship with south africa and the african continent.  there shall be many new challenges and opportunities ahead and i look forward to embracing them with great anticipation.  asked if he was appointed as the result of a  fair and open  competition  he replied:  i have been appointed as a result of a process that s been used before by labour and conservative governments to appoint people of all parties who have relevant experience.  mr boateng also laughed off suggestions that his re-election in brent south seat had been in danger saying it was  one of the safest labour seats in the country . shadow foreign secretary michael ancram said that  if in government  he would refuse to approve either mr boateng s appointment or that of ex-cabinet minister helen liddell as high commissioner to australia.  mr blair s appointment of paul boateng is the latest example of a worrying trend of failed tony s cronies being appointed to senior diplomatic posts   he said.
comeback  show for friends star friends actress lisa kudrow is to play the lead role in a new series about a one-time sitcom star  according to the hollywood reporter.  thirteen episodes of comeback have been commissioned by cable channel hbo  home of hits such as sex and the city. kudrow  who played phoebe in friends  co-wrote the pilot episode and will also act as executive producer. hbo has been looking for its next big comedy hit since sex and the city drew to a close in the us in february. comeback is the first 30-minute comedy series that the channel has picked up since the sex and the city drew to the end of its six-year-run. friends ended its 10-year run on the nbc network in may  and attentions have turned to which projects its six individual stars would pursue.  matt leblanc is starring in a friends spin-off sitcom  charting joey s fortunes in los angeles as he pursues his acting career. jennifer aniston  who was rachel in the long-running show  has enjoyed a series of successful film appearances  with further projects in the pipeline. courteney cox arquette (monica) has been working on a drama project along with husband david arquette for hbo  called the rise and fall of taylor kennedy. matthew perry  who played chandler  has appeared on the west end stage  and has a film  the beginning of wisdom  currently in production. and david schwimmer (ross) directed during his time on friends  and has also worked on joey.
holmes starts 2005 with gb events kelly holmes will start 2005 with a series of races in britain.  holmes will make her first track appearance on home soil since winning double olympic gold in january s norwich union international in glasgow. she will also run in the grand prix in birmingham in february and may defend her indoor aaa 800m title in sheffield earlier that month.  i am still competitive and still want to win   she said.  i m an athlete and i can t wait to get back on the track.  she added:  these events are also a great opportunity to thank the british public for the enormous levels of support they have given me from the moment i stepped off that plane from greece.  the glasgow meeting will see holmes compete over 1500m in a five-way match against sweden  france  russia and italy.
henman decides to quit davis cup tim henman has retired from great britain s davis cup team.  the 30-year-old  who made his davis cup debut in 1994  is now set to fully focus on the atp tour and on winning his first grand slam event.  i ve made no secret of the fact that representing great britain has always been a top priority for me throughout my career   henman told his website. captain jeremy bates has touted alex bogdanovic and andrew murray as possible replacements for the veteran. henman added that he was available to help britain in its bid for davis cup success  with the next tie against israel in march .  although i won t be playing  i would still like to make myself available to both jeremy and the lta in the future so that i can draw upon my experience in the hope of trying to help the british players develop their full potential   he added.  i ve really enjoyed playing in front of the thousands of british fans both home and abroad and would like to thank every one of them for their unwavering support over the years.  henman leaves davis cup tennis with an impressive record  having won 36 of his 50 matches. great britain captain jeremy bates paid tribute to henman s efforts over the years.   tim has quite simply had a phenomenal davis cup career and it has been an absolute privilege to have captained the team with him in it   said bates.  tim s magnificent record speaks for itself. while it s a great loss i completely understand and respect his decision to retire from davis cup and focus on the grand slams and tour.    looking to the future this decision obviously marks a watershed in british davis cup tennis but it is also a huge opportunity for the next generation to make their mark.  we have a host of talented players coming through and despite losing someone of tim s calibre  i remain very optimistic about the future.  henman made his davis cup debut in 1994 against romania in manchester. he and partner bates won their doubles rubber on the middle saturday of the tie. britain eventually lost the contest 3-2. henman and britain had little luck in davis cup matches until 1999 when they qualified for the world group. britain drew the usa and lost the tie when greg rusedski fell to jim courier in the deciding rubber. they made the final stages again  in 2002  but this time lost out to the might of sweden.
millions  to lose textile jobs  millions of the world s poorest textile trade workers will lose their jobs under new trade rules to be introduced in the new year  a charity has warned.  the world trade organisation (wto) is to end its multi-fibre agreement (mfa) on midnight of 31 december. christian aid condemned the move  saying it would see almost a million jobs in bangladesh alone being axed. however  supporters of the change claim it will mean increased efficiency and lower costs for western consumers.  it will also see more jobs created in india and china  advocates argue. the wto said that many developing countries support the end of quotas and stressed that funding was available to countries such as bangladesh to help them make the transition to a fully liberalised market.  there will be a period of adjustment required   said wto spokesman keith rockwell.  some countries will do better than others but there is no one who is suggesting that no developing country will do well out of this.  some countries where it may appear that orders will dry up have seen orders surging and there are many companies who will continue with existing trading relationships.   christian aid has called on british firms not to simply  cut and run  but look after their workers  in a new report called rags to riches to rags.  it added that with few employment alternatives available many sacked garment workers could end up in far worse jobs - with some of the mainly female workers forced into the sex trade. the wto itself has warned that as many as 27 million jobs could be lost as a result of liberalisation in the textile industry. some of the world s fastest developing countries which rely on textile exports to build growth - for example in bangladesh textiles account for almost 85% of the country s exports and the industry employs around 1.5 million people. the mfa pact has helped developing countries get a bigger share of the world market.  the losers in this new trade landscape will be some of the most vulnerable workers in countries such as bangladesh  cambodia  sri lanka and nepal   andrew pendleton  christian aid s head of trade policy  said.  they will be hard-pressed to cope when garment industries there lose their protection.  we are deeply concerned that the new year will spell misery for huge numbers of garment workers.  the wto said there was no consenus among its members to retain the quotas and emphasised that funding was available to countries such as bangladesh to help them adjust to the liberalised market.  it added that the impact of the changes for workers most affected by the shake-up had not been considered  adding such seismic changes to policy should  put the interests of poor people first - rather than simply aiming to liberalise markets at any cost . while the current mfa was not perfect  its did allow third world countries like bangladesh to get onto the first rung of industrial development  christian aid said.  international trade must not be governed by a  race to the bottom  that pitches one set of poor people against another   mr pendleton added.
us peer-to-peer pirates convicted the first convictions for piracy over peer-to-peer networks have been handed down in the us.  new yorker william trowbridge and texan michael chicoine have pleaded guilty to charges that they infringed copyright by illegally sharing music  movies and software. the two men faced charges following raids in august on suspected pirates by the fbi. the pair face jail terms of up to five years and a $250 000 (£130 000) fine.  in a statement the us department of justice said the two men operated the central hubs in a piracy community organised across the direct connect peer-to-peer network. the piracy group called itself the underground network and membership of it demanded that users share between one and 100 gigabytes of files. direct connect allows users to set themselves up as central servers that act as co-ordinating spots for sharers. users would swap files  such as films and music  by exchanging data over the network. during its investigation fbi agents reportedly downloaded 84 movies  40 software programs  13 games and 178  sound recordings  from the five hubs that made up the larger piracy group. the raids were organised under the umbrella of operation digital gridlock which was aimed at fighting  criminal copyright theft on peer-to-peer networks . in total  six raids were carried out in august. five were on the homes of suspected copyright thieves and one on a net service firm. the department of justice said that both men pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit felony copyright infringement. they also pleaded guilty to acting for commercial advantage. the two men are due to be sentenced on 29 april.
kilroy launches  veritas  party ex-bbc chat show host and east midlands mep robert kilroy-silk said he wanted to  change the face of british politics  as he launched his new party. mr kilroy-silk  who recently quit the uk independence party  said  our country  was being  stolen from us  by mass immigration. he told a london news conference that veritas - latin for  truth  - would avoid the old parties   lies and spin . ukip leader roger knapman says he is glad to see the back of mr kilroy-silk.  mr kilroy-silk promised a  firm but fair  policy on immigration and said they hoped to contest most seats at the forthcoming general election. he said veritas would also announce detailed policies on crime  tax  pensions  health and defence over the next few weeks. labour campaign spokesman fraser kemp said veritas was joining  an already crowded field on the right of british politics . on thursday mr kilroy-silk is due to announce which constituency he will run in at the next general election - that will come amid speculation he has his sights set on defence secretary geoff hoon s ashfield seat. he was joined in the new venture by one of ukip s two london assembly members  damien hockney who is now veritas  deputy leader. ukip s chairman petrina holdsworth has said the group will just be a parody of the party the men have left.  mr kilroy-silk quit ukip last week after months of tension as he vied unsuccessfully for the leadership of that party. he said he was ashamed to be a member of a ukip whose leadership had  gone awol  after the great opportunity offered by its third place at last june s european elections.  while ukip has turned its back on the british people  i shall not   he said.  i will be standing at the next general election. i shall be leading a vigorous campaign for the causes i believe in.  and  unlike the old parties  we shall be honest  open and straight.   mr hockney also left ukip saying mr kilroy-silk would  deliver better  as the leader of a eurosceptic party. a spokesman for ukip called on mr hockney to quit the london assembly. the party asserts that mr hockney  has a moral obligation  if not a legal one  to stand down. its leader  roger knapman  has said he is glad to see the back of mr kilroy-silk.  he has remarkable ability to influence people but  sadly  after the [european] election it became clear that he was more interested in the robert kilroy-silk party than the uk independence party so it was nice knowing him  now  goodbye    he said. ukip officials also argue mr kilroy-silk has not been  straightforward  in attacking the party he once wanted to lead.  veritas  it s the bnp in an expensive suit!  it s all well and good robert kilroy-silk claiming  that  veritas  is a party that doesn t believe in  lies and spin   but the truth of the matter is  its completely useless  due to proportional representation  there is no chance that  veritas  will have any chance in claiming power  and change the two-horse race trend. in my opinion this is just a publicity stunt which has just been used as a smoke-screen for his anti-islamism slurs which got him sacked from the television.  i think that his views regarding immigration are shared by many. it really is time that the uk government ceased to be a paper tiger on this issue. in addition as an ashfield constituent i would be more than interested in kilroy -silk opposing geoff hoon!!  good to see the parties of the right splintering in the way the parties of the left have always done. let s hope kilroy-silk  ukip and the euro-sceptic wing of the tory party all fade further into obscurity so we can have some truth in the debate about europe. we benefit enormously from our membership of the eu  we need to be at the heart of europe  leading it and driving it to where we as a country want to go  not running away from it.  all mouth and trousers. a clown. trouble is  any votes he collects may just end up helping new labour into a third term.  whatever kilroy-silk and ukip do  none of their anti-european policies have any relevance outside middle england. this new party might gain support from right-wing england  but will have little impact in wales or scotland.  hopefully this all this fighting within euro-sceptic parties will allow them to slip out of the way and get people voting for real political parties which address more than one issue. england needs europe to survive and as soon as people realise this the better  we can t rely on the usa forever!  at last an impetus for increasing the likely 40% turn out for the election. the electorate is disillusioned with british politics. kilroy has one agenda - the uk - and i ll be voting for him.  both ukip and rk-s are representatives of small-mindedness and a lack of vision for the whole of humankind. the interests of humanity and the world lie so much beyond the scope of these people s bickering that who  in the overall scheme of things  really cares about their petty tiff   many people believe you kilroy. you may even believe yourself but switching horses midstream and then bad mouthing the steed that got you halfway seriously diminishes your credibility.  the very idea of political parties born out of such negative feelings as euroscepticism or british supremacy is nauseating. one can only hope the public recognise these extremists for what they are and shun them at the polls.  i ve always thought that kilroy-silk was a self-publicising  egotist and this news does absolutely nothing to alter my opinion.  brilliant  about time this country had a plausible party!  having seen the recent bbc 3 documentary and witnessed the thoroughly disgraceful chauvinistic behaviour of a number of senior ukip figures i can well understand why kilroy-silk feels embarrassed to be associated with such people. hopefully the ukip members who are interested in the political debate will support his action.  fantastic news. pro-europeans now have far less to worry about from the right. the conservatives are as confused as they have been since the mid-1990s  and the extreme anti-europeans are fracturing themselves into splinter groups that split any votes they might get in local  european and general elections. robert kilroy-silk s ego and vanity are his own (and his supporters ) worst enemy.  as a euro-enthusiast i could not be more delighted by kilroy-silk s behaviour. he took a party that was just building up a head of steam  and having exposed it to ridicule by attempting a coup-d etat  he is now setting about the serious business of dividing it in two. the closer to straight-down-the-middle the better  as far as i am concerned  but in any eventuality  the two sceptic parties will exhaust their energies fighting each other.  if every politician with ambitions to lead their party resorted to forming their own for that purpose  we d have ballot papers a mile long! you ve got to hand it to kilroy-silk for his sheer arrogance and supreme self-belief.  whilst not being a great fan of kilroy i do agree with his comments about the ukip leadership  and like him i am also leaving ukip. i believe countless opportunities have been lost to discredit the eu and to show our people what belonging to the eu really means. the eu s comments last week about michael howard s plans to reform immigration show how little we govern our own country when they can turn round and say immigration is a matter for the eu and not individual member states. the sooner we leave this corrupt super-state the better  does anyone else think that it is ironic that euro-sceptic kilroy-silk has used a latin name for his new party  rather than a  good old british  name  is this indicative of the man - contradictory  vain and pompous   i think mr kilroy-silk has got a very good point. british politics has become too pc and as a result has no straight talking honest strong politicians. they are all interested in their own careers and not the people who put them in power. as a result i feel our democracy is being abused and i want it stopped. if mr kilroy-silk lives up to half his promises he will get my vote.  honestly  who really cares  man with tan leaves party with no plan  to set up party with no idea.  as one of kilroy-silk s east midlands constituents i hope those who voted for him are proud to have been taken in by such charming vacuity. i feel insulted by having him represent me in the european parliament.  ukip tried hard to accommodate robert kilroy silk  but he made it clear that only control of it would satisfy him. someone so keen on complete control was bound to fall foul of ukip s democratic nature.  kilroy is an able communicator and a capable politician  in exactly the way those who lead ukip are not. he tried to make it work  but they didn t seem to want to grow up. he was left in the position of having to defend their gaffes to the media. this new party seems a logical next step for kilroy. good luck to the man  i say.  oh please! this is an amusing irrelevance. there is absolutely no chance of either of these parties communicating a sensible and constructive  eurosceptic  argument. they will play a key part in winning the country round to the idea of a reformed  more democratic  more dynamic europe union. future generations will thank him for his ridiculousness.  the refreshing thing about robert is that he is open  honest and straight. what other politician can claim this. i have a suspicion that he talks for a larger part of the electorate that his critics would like. i shall be voting for him.  the electorate of the east midlands voted not for kilroy-silk but for the ukip. kilroy-silk was made an mep because of his position on the ukip s party list. he has no mandate to represent the area and should resign from the european parliament.  i wouldn t write off kilroy-silk. while he s a clown and a one man band at the moment  he s a populist and that s always dangerous.the man clearly has an enormous ego and looking at our current political masters  that seems to be one of the factors in success.  good luck to kilroy though i think he is doing more harm than good for both his new party and ukip because their vote base is not strong enough for both parties to be successful and at the moment ukip have the upper hand while veritas are starting from square one and fighting a somewhat uphill battle.  the man i once found cringe worthy on day time tv  could well turn out to be my country s knight in shining armour. he expresses views which are now more than common amongst society today - but people are almost too scared to express them. kilroy silk has secured my vote  and many more like me. what s more  i look forward to the day when he claims victory  wrecks the eu  and rescues my great nation... without a hair out of place and his tan as perfect as ever!  great stuff. the longer the uk dithers over europe  the richer we in ireland become  as the only english-speaking country fully committed to europe. oh and send us over those hard-working immigrants - our economy needs them.  this is just what the europhiles pray for. as the main eurosceptic party  ukip should try to resolve its differences with kilroy to show a united front and give the uk public a serious political voice against europe. having multiple parties with the same view point just splits the vote further.  thank goodness that kilroy-silk has gone - now ukip at least has a chance in the election!  it is very sad to see the cause of britain regaining its proper relationship with europe damaged by this split within ukip. robert kilroy-silk could have a lot to offer. instead we have a split party and a damaged cause. under the present electoral system  people must work together  and small parties have no hope of representation. last summer  ukip achieved a major advance  partly and only partly due to kilroy-silk. it is a great shame this has been dissipated in in-fighting.  ukip has a wide platform of policies  not just withdrawal from the eu. this kilroy-silk conveniently ignores in the comments surrounding the launch of his own party. neither the english democrats nor the new party were interested in letting him join them and take over their leadership speaks volumes. veritas is the beginning of the end for kilroy-silk.  if he believes in truth and democracy then he and the two assembly members should resign and force a by-elections to stand on their own platform rather than this backdoor approach to politics of being elected for one party then defecting to another.  so ukip was good enough for him to lead  not good enough for him to follow!  interesting that a party committed to plain speaking should have a latin name!  every opinion poll points to an overwhelming anti-europe feeling in this country. kilroy-silk could be on the verge of something huge if he can broaden his appeal beyond this one issue. he is an extremely able communicator with years of political experience. we wants quality schools  top hospitals  clean and efficient public transport  punishments that fit the crime  limited asylum  a purge on bureaucracy and less taxes. it needs courage and honesty  two qualities sadly lacking in our politicians. kilroy-silk may just have those very qualities. recruit the right colleagues  robert  and your time may have come!  well if you cannot get enough limelight being an ordinary mp then go out and start up your own party. it s all flash and no real policy here  let s hope this is the start of both ukip and kilroy-silk slipping into obscurity.  veritas  the name will doom it. but perhaps i am wrong for surely all modern schoolchildren will understand it since they do still learn latin in the classroom do they not  the whole essence of what rks represents is euroscepticism  so explain to me how the too-twee label of veritas symbolises that
duran duran show set for us tv chart stars duran duran are to appear in a vh1 special in the us including interviews and concert footage.  the show airs on tuesday and will feature a studio performance  behind the scenes footage and fan interviews.  they seemed like a perfect fit with our audience   said rick krim  vh1 s vice president of music and talent. the band recently released a new album  astronaut  the first from the original line-up since 1983. they will also tour japan and the us next year.   when we started playing together  we didn t try and make a really sort of mature album. we just really wanted to make a great duran duran album   said keyboard player nick rhodes.  it s pretty much in line with a lot of stuff out there.  duran duran are currently promoting the album s second single  what happens tomorrow.  simon le bon said earlier this year that the group were not trying to update their sound too much.  we wouldn t want to lose them [older fans] by trying too hard by trying to connect with a new audience   the singer said. le bon also said the five members were getting on very well.  we re like any people who get very close. sometimes you argue with each other. but the fact is we inspire each other musically.  nobody else does it for me   he said.  it s just very special.
hyundai to build new india plant south korea s hyundai motor has announced that it plans to build a second plant in india to meet the country s growing demand for cars.  the company didn t give details of its investment but it said the new plant would produce 150 000 cars a year. this will boost the annual production capacity of the company - india s second-largest car manufacturer - to 400 000 units. hyundai expects its sales in india to grow 16% to 250 000 in 2005. by 2010  it expects to nearly double sales to 400 000 cars. the new plant will be built close to the existing one in chennai  in the southern province of tamil nadu.  south korea s top car maker estimates that the indian market will grow 15% this year  to 920 000 vehicles  reaching 1.6 million vehicles by 2010. demand in india has been driven by the poor state of public transport and the very low level of car ownership  analysts said. figures show that currently only eight people per thousand are car owners.  we desperately need to expand our production in order to meet growing demand in the indian auto market  which is growing over 12 percent every year  and to top our competitors   chairman chung mong-koo said in the statement. he said the company plans to use india as a base for exports to europe  latin america and the middle east. the company - which controls half of the south korean s market - aims to become a global top five auto maker by 2010.
tomlinson stays focused on europe long jumper chris tomlinson has cut his schedule to ensure he is fully fit for the european indoor championships.  the 23-year-old has a minor injury and has pulled out of international meets in madrid and lievin this week as well as warm-weather training in lanzarote.  it s nothing serious   said his coach peter stanley.  he strained a muscle in his abdomen at the birmingham meeting but is back in full training.  sprinter mark lewis-francis will also not compete in madrid on thursday. the birmingham athlete  who clocked a season s best of 6.61 seconds over 60m in birmingham last week  also prefers to focus his attentions on next month s european indoor championships.  lewis-francis  who was runner-up to british team-mate jason gardener at the europeans three years ago  will continue his training at home. meanwhile  tomlinson is still searching for this first major medal and this season he has shown he could be in the sort of form to grab a spot on the podium in madrid. the middlesbrough athlete jumped a season s best of 7.95m at the birmingham grand prix - good enough to push world indoor champion savante stringfellow into second.
uk athletics agrees new kit deal uk athletics has agreed a new deal with adidas to supply great britain squads of all ages with their kit for the next four years.  the german-based firm kitted out team gb at the 2004 olympics and has deals with 20 other national olympic bodies. uk athletics chief david moorcroft said:  the athens experience can now be extended to more major championships.  in the year ahead these include the european indoor and world outdoor championships. we are delighted.  moorcroft added:  it is hugely beneficial to the sport that the adidas commitment will also provide for officials and other personnel at our world-class series of live televised events.  this week  uk athletics also agreed a four-year deal with energy drink company  red bull  who will be supplying the product to athletics at major domestic meetings and in high performance centres.
lib dems   bold  election policy charles kennedy has told voters his liberal democrats will offer them an  honest choice  at the next general election.  with the other two big parties battling over which will impose the lowest taxes  mr kennedy is going into the looming election pledged to increase taxation. it is a bold policy and certainly ensures there is that choice between the lib dems and the other two. with his party s previous pledge to increase taxes by one penny in the pound to spend on public services already adopted by the government  he has switched tack. now he is promising to levy a  modest  increase of the same amount on earnings over £100 000 a year to allow him to finance a series of pledges. they are to scrap student fees  finance free long term care for the elderly and replace the council tax with a local income tax. that last policy will also see about 3% of the most well off paying more while others  pensioners in particular  will pay less.  labour and the tories have attacked his policies as both unworkable and not properly costed.  inevitably they insist there is no need to raise taxes to fund improvements in services. the tories claim they can improve services and cut taxes through £35bn efficiency savings  while labour has offered £22bn savings but has yet to map out precise tax proposals  although there is little chance they will propose increases. in many ways the argument between the lib dems and the others over taxation and spending echo the sort of arguments that raged between labour and the tories in the 1980s and early 1990s. but  unlike the old tory-labour debate  he believes voters are ready to see  modest  tax increases on the well off in order to fund improvements in services. that is a view partly endorsed by recent polls suggesting people would rather have cash spent on public services than tax cuts.  similarly there is a different tone to the lib dem approach to asylum and immigration  with mr kennedy stressing politicians should not  foment an artificial debate  about immigration and attacking michael howard s proposals for quotas. once again  with the two other big parties singing similar songs on immigration  mr kennedy is stressing the different  more liberal approach of his party. mr kennedy was also in buoyant mood over his party s election chances  declaring the tories were not going to be  significant players  in the poll. he repeated his pledge not to do post-election deals with either party after the election. mr kennedy went on to suggest the re-election of a labour government with a small majority would amount to a  massive vote of no confidence   in tony blair s government. that suggests the lib dem leader believes he may well find himself in a powerful  even pivotal position in a vastly different house of commons after the next election. it is a dream the third party has dreamed many times before.
wine comedy wins critics  award quirky comedy sideways was named the best film of the year by the los angeles film critics association.  the us movie also picked up four other accolades including best director for alexander payne and supporting actor for thomas haden church. british actress imelda staunton has again been recognised for her role in vera drake  winning best actress  while liam neeson won best actor for kinsey. the awards will be handed out on 13 january at a ceremony in las vegas.  sideways tells the story of two men who take a road trip through california s wine regions and also stars paul giamatti. virginia madsen was also named best supporting actress for her performance in the film. house of flying daggers  directed by yimou zhang  was named best foreign language film  while the animation award went to the incredibles. unusually  the runners-up in categories were also named with clint eastwood s million dollar baby just missing out on the best film award. the best director runner-up was martin scorsese for the aviator. a career achievement award will be handed to veteran actor and comic jerry lewis at the ceremony next year.
call for action on internet scam phone companies are not doing enough to warn customers about internet  rogue-dialling  scams  according to premium phone line regulator icstis.  it has received 45 000 complaints in recent months about dial-up internet connections diverting to premium rate numbers without users  knowledge. phone companies refuse to pay compensation because they say calls must be paid for. they must warn people earlier about possible fraud  icstis said.  people who use dial-up connections can be affected by the scams. without realising  a program can be downloaded which diverts internet calls via a premium phone line. victims often fail to notice until they receive an unusually high bill. icstis spokesman rob dwight said:  phone companies should get in touch with their customers sooner.  if my bill goes over the usual £50 a month i want to know about it straight away - i don t want to be told when it s hit £750.   phone companies had the systems in place to spot fraudulent activity and artificially-inflated traffic  he said.  we alert them to the numbers that we have under investigation and they should be looking out for these numbers   he added.  telecoms ombudsman elizabeth france said:  certainly i would not be surprised to find my credit card company phoning me if i do something out of the ordinary.  so i would expect phone companies to be looking to see if they can have a similar approach.  the biggest phone company bt says it is doing what it can to monitor fraud and warn people about rogue dialling. its advice to customers is to use call barring if they want to prevent calls to premium lines because  under the current system  once the call has been made there s little that can be done.  gavin patterson  group managing director for bt consumer  said  we do look at customer s calling patterns and we do make interventions when they are out of the ordinary.  we re looking at the moment at whether we can improve this.  but as bt handled 180 million calls a day monitoring was  quite a task in itself   he added. the government has ordered a review of premium line services and is likely to say icstis should have more power to deal with rogue diallers in future. at the moment  it cannot demand pay-outs on the behalf of customer - it can only close illegal services down.  i use free anti-virus software (avg) and free firewall protection (zonealarm). both of these tools have prevented unauthorised access and outgoing calls inadvertently and innocently caused by my daughter s love of music sites. how about isps informing all customers of such facilities  the responsibility clearly falls with the customer but many fall prey through simply not knowing how to avoid these issues.  ignorance is and always has been an expensive business.  does any one know what happens once this fraud has been committed and recognised  the phone companies pay the people who obtaining money fraudulently  so are these people followed up and prosecuted    these diallers are mainly downloaded from sites offering illegal mp3s  porn and pirated software. if people didn t visit such sites they d be considerably less at risk. whatever happened to personal responsibility  it seems everyone has to be a  victim  these days!  part of the blame has to rest with the manufacturers of home computer operating systems. a secure system should not allow a web page or email to download and install anything without the user s knowledge.  these scams are illegal and telephone companies should have nothing to do with them. they should refuse to pay money over to the perpetrators. or are they themselves receiving such good returns that it is in their interest to keep the scam going   why don t bt et al block all premium numbers by default and only turn it off at the customer s request  to anyone who falls foul of this scam - refuse to pay your telephone provider for these calls. after you notify your telephone provider of these fraudulent transactions  they cannot insist on you paying the bill. to do so would be to knowingly assist the fraudsters to commit the fraud. no customers have yet been taken to court for refusing to pay these bills.  disable or remove your modem and use broadband instead - then you have nothing to worry about. or buy some decent firewall software and anti-virus. you would not walk out in the freezing cold without a coat - you would not drive your car without any insurance - so why not protect your pc  stop blaming the phone companies - it s not their fault!  i was very impressed with our phone company recently. i had kept ringing a hotline number for kylie tickets and next day they rang back to ask if i was aware there were 40-odd calls to the same number. great service. and i got the tickets as well!  i have a colleague who has fallen victim to this kind of scam. he informed the phone company about it  they subsequently put a block on premium rate numbers. three months later another huge bill of over £1 000 came in - the block apparently didn t work and he still has to pay for it  even though a block was in place. phone companies are probably quite happy for their customers to be hit with a huge bill  otherwise they d be taking extra steps to prevent this kind of problem.  i have been scammed of £139. the operator will do nothing about this and  to add insult to injury  i was charged vat by the government.  premium rate numbers have been subject to various scams ever since they were invented. one example was where thieves would set up a premium rate number and then dial it day and night from phones whose quarterly bills were never paid. the telephone company was the victim here and you can bet that loophole was blocked very quickly.  i know people who have run up large bills  despite being it-literate. from talking to bt in belfast  i believe that they will shortly be giving out a free application that can stop you dialling expensive numbers without knowing. it s not the fault of phone companies  and at last they are doing something about it.  it s about time that the profiteering by the  legitimate  phone companies came to an end  mainly by doing away with dial-up altogether and bring broadband down to the same price as dial-up! not only will this ruin things for the dialler scammers but also allow people to update and upgrade their security more easily and quickly.  i haven t  fallen victim to a rogue-dialling scam  but i think you re seriously remiss in not pointing out that the vast majority of these scams arise from people trying to access services purporting to provide free pornography. in most cases the user is entirely at fault  which is probably why the telephone companies are rightly unwilling to refund them.  my telephone supplier did not inform me that my monthly bill had risen from its normal £3 to £5  to £320. this was because of the scam. they simply billed me. what particularly galls me  over and above having over £300 stolen  is that the supplier and the government (through vat) are profiting from this crime and will not reimburse me their portion of my losses.  how about an automatic monthly cap of say £20 on premium rate calls that you would have to contact your provider to have lifted  that way you could use legitimate premium rate numbers while limiting fraudulent usage. at least any disputed amount would be limited  far easier for a telecoms operator to write off £20 than it is £750.  a few years back i was also the target of such scams but thank god i have already upgraded to broadband and nothing was connected to my modem so all i heard was the sound of an attempted connection.  how about home users take some responsibility and ensure their anti-virus and firewall software is up to date  that should prevent the vast majority of these scams.
new rules tackle  sham weddings  new rules on marriage for foreign nationals living in the uk are coming into force.  from tuesday  most non-eu citizens will need home office approval to marry. the home office says the new rules are aimed at reducing the number of sham marriages  of which there are estimated to be up to 15 000 a year. but immigrants  group the joint council for the welfare of immigrants (jcwi) says the rules breach human rights law and it may mount a legal challenge. when the changes were unveiled last year  immigration minister des browne said:  our aim is to avoid unnecessary disruption of genuine marriages  while providing firm controls to prevent abuse.  under the previous regulations anybody wishing to get married in the uk only had to produce evidence they had been resident in the country for a week and give 15 days notice of the wedding at the local register office.  but from tuesday all non-eu nationals  apart from citizens of switzerland  liechtenstein  iceland or norway  intending to wed in the uk must either obtain a visa allowing them to get married before they enter the country or apply for a home office  certificate of marriage approval . to get a certificate  costing £135  applicants will have to send proof that they have a legal right to be in the uk. those without a settled status  such as asylum seekers awaiting a decision on their application  will have no right to marry in the uk.  once they have the necessary documentation  those subject to immigration controls wishing to get married in england or wales must register their intention to marry at one of 76 specially-designated register offices. they can  however  marry at the register office or church of their choice. rhian beynon of the jcwi said the new rules were  not proportionate  and  discriminatory .   these rules means in some cases the home secretary is going to be a marriage registrar of last resort.  we re currently taking a legal opinion on this. we ll be looking for people whose right to marry is breached and we ll be looking at taking a case on this to the human rights court   ms beynon said. the new rules have also been called into question by the parliamentary joint committee on human rights. in a report published last july the cross-party committee stated there was a  significant risk  the new procedures were incompatible with the right to marry because they introduced restrictions which were  disproportionate . the committee believed the new laws might be incompatible with the human rights act on the grounds of religion  belief and nationality  the report added.  over the last year immigration service operations against marriages of convenience have been stepped up resulting in a growing number of convictions. in january 25 people who took part in a sham marriage network based in leicester were jailed for a total of 35 years. and last november samuel amoah  a belgian national who set up two sham weddings for couples who wanted to remain in the uk  was jailed for three years. several other cases are currently going through the courts. the role of registrars who under the asylum and immigration act 1999 were obliged to report suspected sham marriages to the home office  has been key in many prosecutions. registrars  spokesman  mark rimmer  said they welcomed the new marriage regulations and believed they would be an significant deterrent.  they will effectively remove most of the blatant cases. certainly those who are illegals in this country  of which we had quite a few  will no longer be getting married   mr rimmer said. mr rimmer  the service director for registrations of marriages at brent council in north-west london  said he did not consider the new law to be an infringement of civil liberties.  it may be seen to be far more draconian than it has been but certainly it s still not as difficult to marry in the uk than it is to marry  for example  in holland  germany or france.  i think it s a proportionate response by government to what was a very large problem   mr rimmer said.
intel unveils laser breakthrough intel has unveiled research that could mean data is soon being moved around chips at the speed of light.  scientists at intel have overcome a fundamental problem that before now has prevented silicon being used to generate and amplify laser light. the breakthrough should make it easier to interconnect data networks with the chips that process the information. the intel researchers said products exploiting the breakthrough should appear by the end of the decade.   we ve overcome a fundamental limit   said dr mario paniccia  director of intel s photonics technology lab. writing in the journal nature  dr paniccia - and colleagues haisheng rong  richard jones  ansheng liu  oded cohen  dani hak and alexander fang - show how they have made a continuous laser from the same material used to make computer processors. currently  says dr paniccia  telecommunications equipment that amplifies the laser light that travels down fibre optic cables is very expensive because of the exotic materials  such as gallium arsenide  used to make it.  telecommunications firms and chip makers would prefer to use silicon for these light-moving elements because it is cheap and many of the problems of using it in high-volume manufacturing have been solved.  we re trying to take our silicon competency in manufacturing and apply it to new areas   said dr paniccia. while work has been done to make some of the components that can move light around  before now silicon has not successfully been used to generate or amplify the laser light pulses used to send data over long distances. this is despite the fact that silicon is a much better amplifier of light pulses than the form of the material used in fibre optic cables. this improved amplification is due to the crystalline structure of the silicon used to make computer chips. dr paniccia said that the structure of silicon meant that when laser light passed through it  some colliding photons rip electrons off the atoms within the material.  it creates a cloud of electrons sitting in the silicon and that absorbs all the light   he said. but the intel researchers have found a way to suck away these errant electrons and turn silicon into a material that can both generate and amplify laser light. even better  the laser light produced in this way can  with the help of easy-to-make filters  be tuned across a very wide range of frequencies. semi-conductor lasers made before now have only produced light in a narrow frequency ranges. the result could be the close integration of the fibre optic cables that carry data as light with the computer chips that process it. dr paniccia said the work was the one of several steps needed if silicon was to be used to make components that could carry and process light in the form of data pulses.  it s a technical validation that it can work   he said.
roche  turns down federer offer  australian tennis coach tony roche has turned down an approach from roger federer to be the world number one s new full-time coach  say reports.  melbourne s herald-sun said roche  troubled by a hip complaint  did not want to travel full-time again. however  roche is happy to work with the swiss star on a casual basis and is helping him prepare for next month s defence of his australian open crown. federer has been without a coach since splitting with peter lundgren in 2003. roche  a former davis cup player for australia  won the french open  reached the wimbledon and us open finals and won five wimbledon doubles titles with john newcombe.  he also coached former number one ivan lendl and pat rafter to grand slam victories and has worked with australia s lleyton hewitt. some reports claim federer initially wanted andre agassi s australian coach darren cahill  before agassi confirmed he would play on in 2005. federer was named swiss sportsman of the year on saturday  to add to the bbc overseas sportsman and european sports journalists association awards he has already won.
euro firms miss out on optimism more than 90% of large companies around the world are highly optimistic about their economic prospects  a survey of 1 300 bosses suggests.  their biggest worries are not terror threats  but over-regulation  low-cost competition and the wild ups and downs of oil prices. there is one exception: firms in western europe - but not the uk - are lacking confidence after years of slow growth. when business advisers pricewaterhousecoopers (pwc) conducted the same survey two years ago  nearly 30% of bosses were gloomy about their prospects.  global business leaders say that they are facing a two-pronged regulatory assault. after a string of corporate scandals in the united states - from enron to worldcom - the sarbanes-oxley act forces companies to be much more transparent  but doing all the paperwork costs a lot of time and money. across europe  meanwhile  all stock exchange-listed companies are currently in the process of moving to new and complex accounting standards called ifrs. hacking through the red tape can hardly be avoided  but many chief executives around the world appear to have decided on how to deal with low-cost competitors.  already  about 28% of the bosses polled for the survey say that they have moved parts of their business into low-wage countries  and another 11% plan to do so in the future. possibly as a result  the worry about low-cost competition has slightly fallen from last year  with just 54% of companies calling it a  significant threat  or  one of the biggest threats . but pwc s global chief executive  samuel dipiazza  said a growing number of companies were also concerned that moves to outsource work to cheaper countries could both hurt their reputation in their home markets and harm the quality of service they provide to their customers.  according to frank brown  global advisory leader at pwc   the trend of large companies to have global operations has one clear upside:  one risk in one region - for example the middle east - won t kill your business anymore.  surprisingly  the survey suggests that the rapid decline of the us dollar is not seen as a huge threat anymore  unlike even a year ago  when it was cited as the third-largest problem. mr dipiazza said the interviews with chief executives suggested that companies had  adjusted  to the new reality of a euro that buys $1.30 and more  while others had successfully hedged their positions and locked in more favourable exchange rates.    - for the survey  pricewaterhousecoopers interviewed 1 324 chief executives throughout the world during the last three months of 2004.
businesses fail to plan for hiv companies fail to draw up plans to cope with hiv/aids until it affects 20% of people in a country  new research says.  the finding comes in a report published on thursday by the world economic forum  harvard and the un aids agency.  too few companies are responding proactively to the social and business threats   said dr kate taylor  head of the wef s global health initiative. nearly 9 000 business leaders in 104 countries were surveyed for business and hiv/aids: commitment and action   dr taylor described the level of action taken by businesses as revealed by the report as  too little  too late . the issue will be highlighted to business and world leaders at the world economic forum  which meets in davos  switzerland  next week. the wef report shows that despite the fact that 14 000 people contract hiv/aids every day  concern among businesses has dropped by 23% in the last 12 months. most (71%) have no policies in place to address the disease. nor could over 65% of the business leaders surveyed say or estimate the prevalence of hiv among their staff. the un programme tackling aids  unaids  pointed out that having a clear strategy for dealing with hiv/aids was a good investment as well as being socially responsible.  one company that does have a plan is anglo-american  the international mining company  which estimates an hiv prevalence of 24% among its 130 000-strong southern african workforce.  over the last two years the company has implemented extensive voluntary counselling and testing for hiv infection  coupled with anti-retroviral therapy for employees progressing to aids. over 90% of the 2 200 employees who have accessed and remained on treatment are well and have returned to normal work.  effective action on hiv/aids is synonymous with good business management and leads to more profitable and sustainable operations   said brian brink  senior vice-president  health  at anglo-american.   companies should encourage all workers to know their hiv status  making it as routine as monitoring blood pressure or cholesterol   he said.  providing access to treatment is a critical part of this.  across sub-saharan africa  even in countries with an hiv prevalence of 10-19%  only around 7% of companies have formal hiv/aids policies in place  according to the report. the gap is even wider in china  ethiopia  india  nigeria and russia  the so-called  next wave  countries  which are predicted to experience the highest numbers of new hiv/aids cases worldwide by 2010. the report adds  an important building block to our understanding of how the business community is experiencing the hiv/aids epidemic and to whether and how it is reacting   said david bloom  professor of economics and demography at the harvard school of public health.  the wef report concludes that businesses need to understand their exposure to hiv/aids risks and come up with good local practices to manage them. a key priority  in both high and low-prevalence settings  said the wef is to establish a policy based on non-discrimination and confidentiality.
standard life concern at lse bid standard life is the latest shareholder in deutsche boerse to express concern at the german stock market operator s plans to buy the london stock exchange.  it said deutsche boerse had to show why its planned £1.35bn ($2.5bn) offer for the lse was good for shareholder value. reports say standard life  which owns a 1% stake in deutsche boerse  may seek a shareholder vote on the issue. fellow shareholders us-based hedge fund atticus capital and uk-based tci fund management have also expressed doubts.  deutsche boerse s supervisory board has approved the possible takeover of the lse despite the signs of opposition from investors.  the onus is on deutsche boerse s management to demonstrate why the purchase of the lse creates more value for shareholders than other strategies  such as a buyback   said richard moffat  investment director of uk equities at standard life investments. atticus capital  holding 2% of deutsche boerse  wants it to buy back its own shares rather than buy the lse. and tci which holds about 5%  has made a request for an extraordinary shareholders meeting to be held to vote on replacing the company s entire supervisory board. it has also demanded that shareholders be consulted about the proposed acquisition  and whether the operator of the frankfurt stock exchange should return $500m (£266m) to shareholders instead.  in december  deutsche boerse  which also owns the derivatives market eurex and the clearing firm clearstream  put an informal offer of 530 pence per lse share on the table. however  the lse said the cash offer  undervalued  both its own business and the benefits of such a tie-up. since then an improved offer from deutsche boerse has been anticipated as its management has continued talks with lse chief executive clara furse. but the london exchange is also holding talks with deutsche boerse s rival euronext  which operates the amsterdam  brussels  lisbon and paris exchanges  as well as london-based international derivatives market liffe.
california sets fines for spyware the makers of computer programs that secretly spy on what people do with their home pcs could face hefty fines in california.  from 1 january  a new law is being introduced to protect computer users from software known as spyware. the legislation  which was approved by governor arnold schwarzenegger  is designed to safeguard people from hackers and help protect their personal information. spyware is considered by computer experts to be one of the biggest nuisance and security threats facing pc users in the coming year. the software buries itself in computers and can collect a wide range of information. at its worst  it has the ability to hijack personal data  like passwords  login details and credit card numbers. the programs are so sophisticated they change frequently and become impossible to eradicate.  one form of spyware called adware has the ability to collect information on a computer user s web-surfing. it can result in people being bombarded with pop-up ads that are hard to close. in washington  congress has been debating four anti-spyware bills  but california is a step ahead. the state s consumer protection against spyware act bans the installation of software that takes control of another computer. it also requires companies and websites to disclose whether their systems will install spyware. consumers are able to seek up to $1 000 in damages if they think they have fallen victim to the intrusive software. the new law marks a continuing trend in california towards tougher privacy rights. a recent survey by earthlink and webroot found that 90% of pcs are infested with the surreptitious software and that  on average  each one is harbouring 28 separate spyware programs. currently users wanting protection from spyware have turned to free programs such as spybot and ad-aware.
wolves appoint hoddle as manager glenn hoddle will be unveiled as the new wolves manager on tuesday.  the club have confirmed that the former england coach will be unveiled as the successor to dave jones at a news conference at molineux at 1100 gmt. hoddle has been linked with a return to former club southampton but wolves have won the race for his services. he has been out of the game since being sacked at spurs in september 2003 and worked alongside wolves caretaker boss stuart gray at southampton. hoddle began his managerial career as player-boss with swindon before moving on to chelsea and then taking up the england job.  his spell in charge of the national side came to an end after the 1998 world cup when he made controversial remarks about the disabled in a newspaper interview. the 47-year-old later returned to management with southampton  where he again succeeded jones - as he has now done at wolves. he engineered an upturn in saints  fortunes before being lured to white hart lane by tottenham - the club where he made his name as a player. that relationship turned sour at the start of the last campaign and he left the london club early last season. since then he has applied unsuccessfully for the post of france manager and had also been linked with a return to southampton. wolves are currently 17th in the championship and have a home game against millwall on tuesday.
india unveils anti-poverty budget india is to boost spending on primary schools and health in a budget flagged as a boost for the ordinary citizen.  india s defence budget has also been raised 7.8% to 830bn rupees ($19bn). the priority for finance minister palaniappan chidambaram is to fight poverty and keep the government s communist allies onside. but his options are limited by a new law which makes him cut the budget deficit  which he said would be 4.5% of gdp in the year to march 2005. the country s overall deficit is thought to be more than 10%  if the spending of india s 35 states and territories is included. under the fiscal responsibility law  mr chidambaram has to trim the deficit by 0.3 percentage points each year  a target he says he has now met for the current year.  but the heavy spending on poverty reduction means the 2005-6 target for the deficit will be 4.3%  mr chidambaram said - falling short of the new law s requirement.  i was left with no option but to press the pause button vis a vis the act   he said. the following year  though  would have to be back on track  he warned.   i may add that we are perilously close to the limits of fiscal prudence and there is no more room for spending beyond our means   he said. the coming year s reduction has meant bringing more of the businesses in india s burgeoning services sector into the tax system and restructuring the personal tax system  although there are numerous corporate tax and duty reductions built into the budget.  presenting his budget in the lower house of parliament  mr chidambaram said the indian economy was performing strongly and that inflation has been reined in. he said india s economy grew 6.9% in 2004. in his budget mr chidambaram has:  - increased spending on primary education to 71.56bn rupees ($1.6bn)   - increased spending on health to 102.8bn rupees ($2.35bn)   - announced that 80bn rupees ($1.8bn) will be spent on building rural infrastructure   - pledged 102.16bn rupees ($2.3bn) for tsunami victims   - increased flow of funds to agriculture by 30%   - announced a package for the sugar industry  in addition  up to 100bn rupees ($2.3bn) to be spent on infrastructure will be sourced by borrowing against the country s foreign exchange reserves  keeping budgeted spending under control.  given the resilience of the indian economy... it is possible to launch a direct assault on poverty   mr chidambaram said.  the whole purpose of democratic government is to eliminate poverty.  the new indian government  led by the congress party  was voted into power last may after it pledged to introduce economic reforms with a  human face .  the finance minister says he is committed to continue reforming india s tax system while expanding the tax base. as part of his reforms he has announced:  - duty cuts on capital goods and raw materials   - expanded service tax net   - raised the income-tax threshold to 100 000 rupees ($2 300)   - reduced income tax for those earning less than 250 000 rupees ($5 700) to 20%   - reduced corporate tax rates to 30%  an annual economic survey released on friday said india needed to ease limit restriction on foreign investment  reform labour laws and cut duties apart from widening the tax base for long-term economic growth. but mr chidambaram is under pressure from the communist parties to focus on increasing social spending. the communists are also hostile to measures seeking to increase foreign investment and allow companies to hire and fire employees at will. in recent months  they have expressed their displeasure at the government s economic reform plans including increasing foreign direct investment in telecommunication and aviation. in his last budget  mr chidambaram had pledged billions of dollars for improving education and health services for the poor as well as special assistance for farmers.
tarantino to direct csi episode film director quentin tarantino is to direct an episode of us television series csi: crime scene investigation.  the oscar-winning pulp fiction director has also written an original story for the season finale episode. csi s co-producer  carol mendelsohn  said the episode would have  more bugs and blood  than usual. it is not tarantino s first venture into tv. in 1995 he directed an episode of the medical drama er and has also appeared in alias.  ms mendelsohn said the production team had been trying for a while to get tarantino to direct an episode of csi  and added that he was a fan of the forensic drama. she said he finally agreed a few weeks ago while csi was doing some location shooting in las vegas and the show s stars persuaded him.  he knows everything there is to know about csi  and he is into the whole mythology of csi   mendelsohn said.  quentin came in a couple of weeks ago. we had a story meeting with the writers.  he had a great idea  and it was so much fun to have him in the room... we are positively giddy.  filming is due to start in early april and the tarantino-directed episode will be broadcast in the us on 19 may.
learning to love broadband we are reaching the point where broadband is a central part of daily life  at least for some  argues technology analyst bill thompson.  one of the nice things about being a writer is that i rarely have to go to an office to work. i can sit in a caf&#233; or a library  with or without a wi-fi connection  and research and write articles. if i am passing through kings cross station on my way to a meeting then i can log on from the platform. and i can spend the day working with my girlfriend anne  a children s writer  at her house in cambridge  sharing her wireless network. but just over a week ago i arrived at her house to find that there was no network connection.  we checked the cable modem and noticed that it had no power  and when she changed the power lead it sparked at her in a way which made it abundantly clear that it was never going to talk to the internet again. she called her service provider  and they told her it would be five days before an engineer would show up with a new cable modem. this did not seem too bad  but in fact she really suffered until her connection was restored on wednesday. with no modem installed in her computer  she had to borrow internet access from friends or use the dial-up connection on her daughter s laptop  so she had to choose between copying her files onto her usb memory card or accepting a slower and flakier net connection. as a result she did not submit the pictures she wanted to use for a book on earthquakes because they were too big to send over dial-up.  she could not research other material because she is used to having easy access to a fast link that lets her search quickly and effectively. but the impact spread into her personal life too. she did not take her children to the cinema during half-term because she could not find out which films were showing at the local cinemas. she planned a trip to norfolk but did not check the weather because the only place she knows to look for weather information is the bbc website. and she did not know where to go fossil-hunting on the trip because she could not type  fossils norfolk  into google. of course  she readily admits  she could have answered these questions if she had looked in the local paper  listened to the radio or found a book on fossils. but she did not  because having fast  always on  and easy access to the net has become part of the routine of her daily life  and when it was taken away it was too much effort to go back to the old ways of doing things. she may be unusual  but i do not think anne is alone.  according to ofcom there were almost four million broadband users in the uk in april 2004  and numbers are climbing fast. there will certainly be five million by the end of the year. dial-up users are switching to broadband. my dad finally made the change earlier this month and new net users are selecting broadband from the start. more and more of these broadband users are beginning to mould their daily lives around the availability of broadband internet connections  and they too will find it difficult to cope if they cannot get online for any reason.  it is part of the process of adaptation  and it is a vital step in the growth of broadband in the uk and elsewhere. people who have integrated net access into their daily lives tell their friends about it  and show off the cool stuff they can do. they encourage other people to get broadband so that they can share digital photos and do all of the other things that need fast and reliable connectivity. of course  broadband in the uk is laughably slow compared to other parts of the world. in south korea  japan and hong kong normal connection speeds are measured in megabits  or millions of bits  a second rather than the thousands that we are supposed to be happy with. but speed is only a small part of the attraction of broadband  and when it comes to checking websites for film times  looking at weather forecasts  or all of the other small things that make a real difference to the routines and habits of our daily lives  even uk speeds are sufficient. it may not be the brave new world of streaming full-screen video and superfast file downloads  but it will do for now. and it is certainly better than slow access or no access. just ask anne.  bill thompson is a regular commentator on the bbc world service programme go digital.
deutsche attacks yukos case german investment bank deutsche bank has challenged the right of yukos to claim bankruptcy protection in the us.  in a court filing on tuesday  it said the russian oil giant has few texas ties beyond bank accounts and a texas-based finance chief. deutsche bank claimed yukos had artificially manufactured a legal case to stop the sale of its main asset. it had wanted to help fund gazprom s plans for a $10bn (£5.18bn) bid for yukos unit yuganskneftegas.  deutsche bank would have earned large fees from the deal  which could not be carried out because us chapter 11 bankruptcy rules made the kremlin s auction of yuganskneftegas on 19 december illegal under us law.  but the us bankruptcy court judge in texas granted yukos an injunction that barred gazprom and its lenders from taking part. yuganskneftegas will ultimately end up with gazprom. the winning bidder at the auction was a previously unknown firm  baikal finance group  which was snapped up days later by rosneft  a russian oil firm that is in the process of merging with gazprom. the effect of these transactions is to renationalise yuganskneftegas. deutsche bank contends yukos filed for bankruptcy earlier this month in texas in a desperate and unsuccessful bid to stave off the 19 december auction of its top unit by the russian government  which was in a tax dispute with yukos.   this blatant attempt to artificially manufacture a basis for jurisdiction constitutes cause to dismiss this case   deutsche bank said in its court filing. mike lake  a spokesman for yukos  lawyers  said on tuesday that the company stands by its legal action. yukos is confident of its right to us bankruptcy protection  and  we are prepared to be back in court defending that position again   he said. yukos has said it intends to seek $20bn in damages from the buyer of yuganskneftegas once the sale finally goes through. in its filing  deutsche bank said houston was  a jurisdiction in which yukos owns no real or personal property and conducts no business operations.   it also said the us bankruptcy court should not become involved in  a tax dispute between the federation and one of its corporate citizens . it suggested the european court or an international arbitration tribunal were more appropriate jurisdictions for the legal fight between russia and yukos. the next hearing in the bankruptcy is expected on 6 january. analysts believe the tax dispute between the russian government and yukos is partly driven by russian president vladimir putin s hostility hostility to the political ambitions of ex-yukos boss mikhail khordokovsky. mr khodorkovsky is in jail  and on trial for fraud and tax evasion.
doors open at biggest gadget fair thousands of technology lovers and industry experts have gathered in las vegas for the annual consumer electronics show (ces).  the fair showcases the latest technologies and gadgets that will hit the shops in the next year. about 50 000 new products will be unveiled as the show unfolds. microsoft chief bill gates is to make a pre-show keynote speech on wednesday when he is expected to announce details of the next generation xbox.  the thrust of this year s show will be on technologies which put people in charge of multimedia content so they can store  listen to  and watch what they want on devices any time  anywhere. about 120 000 people are expected to attend the trade show which stretches over more than 1.5 million square feet. highlights will include the latest trends in digital imaging  storage technologies  thinner flat screen and high-definition tvs  wireless and portable technologies  gaming  and broadband technologies. the show also includes several speeches from key technology companies such as intel  microsoft  and hewlett packard among others.  the story this year remains all about digital and how that is completely transforming and revolutionising products and the way people interact with them   jeff joseph  from the consumer electronics association (cea) told the bbc news website.  it is about personalisation - taking your mp3 player and creating your own playlist  taking your digital video recorder and watch what you want to watch when - you are no longer at the whim of the broadcasters.   consumer electronics and gadgets had a phenomenal year in 2004  according to figures released by ces organisers  the cea  on tuesday. the gadget explosion signalled the strongest growth yet in the us in 2004. shipments of consumer electronics rose by almost 11% between 2003 and 2004. that trend is predicted to continue  according to cea analysts  with wholesale shipments of consumer technologies expected to grow by 11% again in 2005. the fastest-growing technologies in 2004 included blank dvd media  liquid crystal display (lcd) tvs  digital video recorders (dvrs)  and portable music players.  this year we will really begin to see that come to life in what we call place shifting - so if you have your pvr [personal video recorder] in your living room  you can move that content around the house.  some exhibitors will be showcasing how you can take that content anywhere   said mr joseph. he said the products which will be making waves in the next year will be about the  democratisation  of content - devices and technologies that will give people the freedom to do more with music  video  and images. there will also be more focus on the design of technologies  following the lead that apple s ipod made  with ease of use and good looks which appeal to a wider range of people a key concern.  the cea predicted that there would be several key technology trends to watch in the coming year. gaming would continue to thrive  especially on mobile devices  and would reach out to more diverse gamers such as women. games consoles sales have been declining  but the launch of next generation consoles  such as microsoft s xbox and playstation  could buoy up sales. although it has been widely predicted that mr gates would be showcasing the new xbox  some media reports have cast doubt on what he would be talking about in the keynote. some have suggested the announcement may take place at the games developers conference in the summer instead. with more than 52% of us homes expected to have home networks  the cea suggested hard drive boxes - or media servers - capable of storing thousands of images  video and audio files to be accessed through other devices around the home  will be more commonplace. portable devices that combine mobile telephony  digital music and video players  will also be more popular in 2005. their popularity will be driven by more multimedia content and services which will let people watch and listen to films  tv  and audio wherever they are. this means more storage technologies will be in demand  such as external hard drives  and flash memory like sd cards. ces runs officially from 6 to 9 january.
o sullivan quick to hail italians ireland coach eddie o sullivan heaped praise on italy after seeing his side stutter to a 28-17 victory in rome.   it was a hell of a tough game   said o sullivan.  we struggled in the first half because we hadn t the football.  italy played really well. they handled the ball well in terms of kicking it  if that s not an oxymoron.  we said before the game that it might take until 10 minutes from the end for this game to be won  and that s how it turned out.  ireland struggled to cope with italy s fierce start and were indebted to skipper brian o driscoll  who set up tries for geordan murphy and peter stringer.  we had our first attack in the italian half after 22 minutes   said o sullivan.  we had a good return  with three first-half possessions in their half and we scored twice.  the second half was about spending more time in their half.  scrum-half peter stringer was also glad that ireland escaped wtih a victory.  all credit to them   he told bbc sport.  we knew it would be tough coming to rome. they always give us a tough game here and they showed a lot of spirit.  they had a lot of ball in the first half but we got a few scores when we got into their 22.
half of uk s mobiles  go online  multimedia mobile phones are finally showing signs of taking off  with more britons using them to go online.  figures from industry monitor  the mobile data association (mda)  show the number of phones with gprs and mms technology has doubled since last year. gprs lets people browse the web  access news services  mobile music and other applications like mobile chat. by the end of 2005  the mda predicts that 75% of all mobiles in the uk will be able to access the net via gprs. the mda say the figures for the three months up to 30 september are a  rapid increase  on the figure for the same time the previous year. about 53 million people own a mobile in the uk  so the figures mean that half of those phones use gprs. gprs is often described as 2.5g technology - 2.5 generation - sitting between 2g and 3g technology  which is like a fast  high-quality broadband internet for phones.  with more services being offered by mobile operators  people are finding more reasons to go online via their mobile. downloadable ringtones are still proving highly popular  but so is mobile chat. bandaid was the fastest ever-selling ringtone this year  according to the mda  and chat was given some publicity when prime minister tony blair answered questions through mobile text chat. multimedia messaging services also looked brighter with 32% of all mobiles in the uk able to send or receive picture messages. this is a 14% rise from last september s figures. but a recent report from continental research reflects the continuing battle mobile companies have to actually persuade people to go online and to use mms. it said that 36% of uk camera phone users had never sent a multimedia message  or mms. that was 7% more than in 2003. mobile companies are keen for people to use multimedia functions their phones  like sending mms and going online  as this generates more money for them. but critics say that mms is confusing and some mobiles are too difficult to use. there have also been some issues over interoperability  and being able to send mms form a mobile using one network to a different one.
south africa sweep top awards south africa s schalk burger was named player of the year as the tri-nations champions swept the top honours at the international rugby board s awards.  the flanker topped a list which included ireland star gordon d arcy and australian sensation matt giteau. jake white claimed the coaching award while his side held off grand slam winners france to take the team award. england player simon amor beat team-mate ben gollings and argentine lucio lopez fleming to win the sevens award. burger s award came just a week after he won the equivalent prize from his fellow international players and white  who also coached burger at under-21 level  paid tribute to him.  schalk s emergence as a major force has meant a lot to south african rugby  but has also influenced world rugby   said white.  he s become to south african rugby what jonty rhodes was to south african cricket. it s amazing what he has achieved in such a short time so far in his international career.  amor  who will captain england in this season s opening irb sevens tournament  the dubai sevens  which start on thursday  was delighted with his award.  there are so many great sevens players on the circuit at the moment that this is a genuine honour   said the gloucester fly-half.
building giant in asbestos payout australian building products group james hardie has agreed to pay $1.1bn (£568m) to victims of asbestos-related diseases.  the landmark deal could see thousands of people suffering from lung diseases - caused by asbestos the company once made - receive compensation. the move follows angry protests after the firm said a previous compensation fund was running out of money. a subsequent new south wales state inquiry criticised hardie s actions. in september  the inquiry found that the company had misled the public about the amount of money set aside to cover its asbestos-related liabilities  sparking the resignation of its then chief executive  peter macdonald.  campaigners welcomed news of the preliminary agreement.  this is a momentous day in the fight for victims and their families   said asbestosis sufferer bernie banton  who leads a victims  association.  there is still a long way to go  but we are getting there.  james hardie chairwoman  meredith hellicar  said the deal provided for a funding arrangement  that is affordable  sensible and workable .  at the end of the day we are dealing with compensation for people who are terminally ill. we don t know exactly how many of them there will be  we don t know over what exact period they will fall ill   she said. however  the deal still has to receive the approval of hardie s shareholders.  hardie  which currently makes more than 80% of its revenues in the us  was once australia s biggest supplier of asbestos building materials. in 2001  the company set up a fund to compensate asbestos victims  but it later admitted the fund was running short of money. a decision by hardie to move its headquarters to the netherlands - while remaining a listed company in australia - provoked a damaging public outcry. victims groups accusing it of trying to escape its responsibilities by moving abroad  a charge the company denies. australia s securities watchdog is currently investigating hardie s former chief executive and former chief financial officer over allegations of misleading investors and the general public.
t-mobile bets on  pocket office  t-mobile has launched its latest  pocket office  third-generation (3g) device which also has built-in wi-fi - high-speed wireless net access.  unlike other devices where the user has to check which high-speed network is available to transfer data  the device selects the fastest one itself. the mda iv  released in the summer  is an upgrade to the company s existing smartphone  the 2.5g/wi-fi mda iii. it reflects the push by mobile firms for devices that are like mini laptops. the device has a display that can be swivelled and angled so it can be used like a small computer  or as a conventional clamshell phone. the microsoft mobile phone  with two cameras and a qwerty keyboard  reflects the design of similar all-in-one models released this year  such as motorola s mpx.  one in five european workers are already mobile - meaning they spend significant time travelling and out of the office   rene obermann  t-mobile s chief executive  told a press conference at the 3gsm trade show in cannes. he added:  what they need is their office when they are out of the office.  t-mobile said it was seeing increasing take up for what it calls  office in a pocket  devices  with 100 000 mdas sold in europe already.  in response to demand  t-mobile also said it would be adding the latest phone-shaped blackberry to its mobile range. reflecting the growing need to be connected outside the office  it announced it would introduce a flat-fee £20 ($38) a month wi-fi tariff for people in the uk using its wi-fi hotspots. it said it would nearly double the number of its hotspots - places where wi-fi access is available - globally from 12 300 to 20 000.  it also announced it was installing high-speed wi-fi on certain train services  such as the uk s london to brighton service  to provide commuters a fast net connection too. the service  which has been developed with southern trains  nomad digital (who provide the technology)  begins with a free trial on 16 trains on the route from early march to the end of april. a full service is set to follow in the summer. wi-fi access points will be connected to a wimax wireless network - faster than wi-fi - running alongside the train tracks. brian mcbride  managing director of t-mobile in the uk  said:  we see a growing trend for business users needing to access e-mail securely on the move.   we are able to offer this by maintaining a constant data session for the entire journey.  he said this was something other similar in-train wi-fi services  such as that offered on gner trains  did not offer yet. mr obermann added that the mobile industry in general was still growing  with many more opportunities for more services which would bear fruit for mobile companies in future. thousands of mobile industry experts are gathered in cannes  france  for the 3gsm which runs from 14 to 17 february.
hoffman hits out over modern film hollywood legend dustin hoffman has hit out at the quality of current films and theatre productions.  the star of rain man and tootsie said the film culture was  in the craphouse  at a press conference on tuesday. the 67-year-old also said he stopped working a few years ago because he lost his  spark  for acting. hoffman is in the uk to publicise his new comedy  meet the fockers  which also stars robert de niro  barbra streisand and ben stiller.  he said:  you go to the cinema and you realise you re watching the third act. there is no first or second act.  there is this massive film-making where you spend this incredible amount of money and play right to the demographic.  you can tell how much money the film is going to make by how it does on the first weekend.  the whole culture is in the craphouse. it s not just true in the movies  it s also true in the theatre.  broadway  and now london is the same  special effects are in great demand. it s not a good time culturally.   hoffman also said he stopped working a few years ago and moved into directing and writing. he said:  i just lost that spark i always had.  a couple of years ago i didn t like the parts i was getting.  studios weren t interested in the kind of films that people of my generation wanted to see.  i thought i would stop and just try writing and directing. i wasn t aware of the depression that set in.  recently  hoffmann has returned to film  with roles in i heart huckabees  finding neverland and now meet the fockers  which is the sequel to meet the parents. meet the fockers opens in the uk on friday.
toxic web links help virus spread virus writers have begun using the power of the web to spread their malicious wares.  a windows virus called bofra is turning infected machines into distributors of its malicious code. those clicking on the poisoned links in e-mail messages sent out by infected machines may fall victim to the virus. the trick is being used to prevent the progam being caught by anti-virus software that combs through code contained in e-mail attachments.  the virus that uses this trick is called bofra and the first member of the family of worms appeared on 10 november. they exploit a windows vulnerability that was discovered only a few days earlier.  like many other recent viruses  bofra plunders the address book in microsoft outlook for e-mail addresses and scours other files on an infected machine for fresh target addresses. the virus uses its own mail sending software to despatch e-mail messages to potential victims but  unlike many other recent viruses  does not itself travel via mail. instead the body of the mail messages sent out contain fake weblinks that  when clicked on  connect back to the machine that distributed that e-mail. essentially  bofra turns infected machines into small web servers that happily dole out copies of the virus. the messages try to trick people into clicking on the links by promising pornographic videos and images or by posing as payment confirmation for a paypal transaction.  copies of the messages seen by the bbc news website had bright yellow and green backgrounds. those clicking on the links will inadvertently download the bofra virus which will then start searching for new addresses to send itself to. filtering firm clearswift said this tactic of creating thousands of mini web servers was designed to help the virus spread quickly and avoid attempts to shut it down. in the past other malicious programs have relied on a single web server that downloads viral code to target machines. shutting down this central server usually stops the virus spreading.  clearswift said that fact that no viral code travels in the e-mail messages sent out by machines infected by bofra could hamper effects to limit its spread. finnish anti-virus firm f-secure said that  so far  it had not seen many copies of the bofra virus and its variants in circulation.  tim warner  spokesman for anti-virus firm finjan  said:  you have people getting very creative now to deliver the virus and get it propagating.  mr warner said organisations needed to prepare deep defences to keep out the modern form of malicious mobile code.  most firms have secured their e-mail gateway   said mr warner   but the irony is that most of them let malicious content through the web gateways.  he said behavioural systems that monitor what users do can help to spot when viruses have penetrated organisations and have started hunting for other victims. the bofra family of viruses  which were originally thought to be offshoots of the mydoom bug  can infect machines running windows 2000  95  98  me  nt  xp and server 2003. users running windows xp that have applied the sp2 update are not vulnerable to the loophole that bofra exploits.
can smith work scottish wonders  the worst kept secret in scottish football was revealed on thursday when walter smith was named as the new national manager.  from the moment berti vogts  miserable tenure in charge of scotland ended  the former rangers and everton boss has been the overwhelming favourite for the post. but is smith the man for what must be one of the hardest jobs in football  the 56-year-old takes over at a time when the national side is in the doldrums. scotland have not reached a major finals since the world cup in 1998 and reaching germany 2006 looks near impossible  having picked up just two points from the opening three games in the qualifying race. and the fifa rankings see scotland listed at an all time low of 77th  below the likes of estonia  ghana  angola and thailand. scotland are not blessed with quality players with experience at the top level  so smith will have to get the best out of meagre resources. smith s track record make impressive reading and he is widely respected within the game. the man who was alex ferguson s assistant when scotland played at the 1986 world cup won seven league titles with rangers. and his appointment has been widely endorsed by many of the games  top names  including ferguson and graeme souness  who took him to ibrox as his assistant in 1986. characters like souness  ferguson and current ibrox manager alex mcleish all cite smith s experience and his expansive knowledge of the scottish game.  much was made of vogts  inability to express himself to the players and media. that will certainly not be the case with smith. the former dundee united and dumbarton full-back is from the managerial old school - straight talking and never slow to let players know when he expects better (often with the use of some colourful invective). but it should be remembered vogts came to scotland with an impressive curriculum vitae - a world cup winner as a player and a european championships winner as a manager. smith will inherit the same problems vogts had - a callow squad of players with no exceptional talents. and it remains to be seen if smith will experience the rash of call-offs that blighted so much of vogts  preparation work. a fresh start for the scottish national team was imperative and smith is widely regarded as a safe pair of hands. but will a safe pair of hands be enough when the adroit hands of a magician might be required...
moving mobile improves golf swing a mobile phone that recognises and responds to movements has been launched in japan.  the motion-sensitive phone - officially titled the v603sh - was developed by sharp and launched by vodafone s japanese division. devised mainly for mobile gaming  users can also access other phone functions using a pre-set pattern of arm movements. the phone will allow golf fans to improve their swing via a golfing game.  those who prefer shoot- em-ups will be able to use the phone like a gun to shoot the zombies in the mobile version of sega s house of the dead. the phone comes with a tiny motion-control sensor  a computer chip that responds to movement.  other features include a display screen that allows users to watch tv and can rotate 180 degrees. it also doubles up as an electronic musical instrument. users have to select a sound from a menu that includes clapping  tambourine and maracas and shake their phone to create a beat. it is being recommended for the karaoke market. the phone will initially be available in japan only and is due to go on sale in mid-february. the new gadget could make for interesting people-watching among japanese commuters  who are able to access their mobiles on the subway. fishing afficiandos in south korea are already using a phone that allows them to simulate the movement of a rod. the ph-s6500 phone  dubbed a sports-leisure gadget  was developed by korean phone giant pantech and can also be used by runners to measure calorie consumption and distance run.
brown  proud of economy record  gordon brown has delivered a rousing speech to labour s spring conference setting out the government s agenda for the next general election.  the chancellor said he was proud of his party s record on the economy  and would strive for continuing stability if elected. the gateshead conference was told he would help young people who were struggling to buy their own homes. and the chancellor vowed to continue the fight against child poverty. later  prime minister tony blair will answer questions sent by the public via text and e-mail.  analysing mr brown s position before the speech  bbc correspondent james hardy said mr brown would draw  sharp dividing lines  with the conservatives for the forthcoming election campaign. he would contrast labour s plan to invest £60bn in services with a tory plan to cut spending by £35bn.  mr brown will lay out his credentials as a reforming chancellor determined to take on and beat the asian tiger economies which increasingly dominate world trade   our correspondent said.  on friday night  mr brown confirmed he would not make any tax commitments until the labour manifesto had been published after the budget  expected in march. but commentators will listen to his speech closely for hints on whether  as the conservatives claim  he plans to raise tax after the election. the tories accuse labour of raising taxes 66 times since coming to power in 1997.  following the chancellor s keynote speech  the prime minister will face interactive questioning from ordinary voters on saturday. mr blair is thought to be deliberately putting himself on the line in a bid to engage the electorate ahead of an expected may election. capital radio dj margherita taylor will select questions to put to him from thousands e-mailed and sent by text. the prime minister s enthusiasm for the job remains undimmed  alan milburn  labour s election strategist told radio 4 s today programme on saturday. mr blair has  the same passion and the same commitments for the job  as when labour came to power in 1997  he said.  and he confirmed mr blair s insistence that no poll date had yet been set. he said:  i m the general election co-ordinator and i don t know  and tony has not made up his mind.  on friday  the prime minister completed a whistle-stop tour of england  during which he unveiled his party s six pre-election pledges. starting in london  he visited marginal constituencies pledging to build on what he said were labour s achievements on the economy  crime  education and public services. the conservatives and lib dems said the pledges - set to underpin labour s election campaign - were  worthless .
insurance bosses plead guilty another three us insurance executives have pleaded guilty to fraud charges stemming from an ongoing investigation into industry malpractice.  two executives from american international group (aig) and one from marsh & mclennan were the latest. the investigation by new york attorney general eliot spitzer has now obtained nine guilty pleas. the highest ranking executive pleading guilty on tuesday was former marsh senior vice president joshua bewlay.  he admitted one felony count of scheming to defraud and faces up to four years in prison. a marsh spokeswoman said mr bewlay was no longer with the company. mr spitzer s investigation of the us insurance industry looked at whether companies rigged bids and fixed prices. last month marsh agreed to pay $850m (£415m) to settle a lawsuit filed by mr spitzer  but under the settlement it  neither admits nor denies the allegations .
us prepares for hybrid onslaught sales of hybrid cars in the us are set to double in 2005  research suggests.  research group jd power estimates sales will hit 200 000 in 2005  despite higher prices and customer scepticism. carmakers are starting to build hybrid sports utility vehicles (suvs)  the four-wheel-drive vehicles which now dominate the us car market. hybrids cut both petrol consumption and emissions by combining a petrol engine with an electric motor constantly kept charged by extra engine power. several jurisdictions  notably the state of california  mandate low emissions for new cars. equally  the rise in oil prices over the past year has sparked hopes that consumers may be tempted by potential savings of a few hundred dollars a year on fuel.  at the detroit motor show  a range of manufacturers are prominently displaying their hybrid credentials. toyota has led the market to date with the prius  popularised by a number of celebrities keen to burnish their  green  credentials. in april it will launch a hybrid version of its highlander suv  with an suv from its luxury lexus marque due later in the year.  honda has three hybrids on the market  and between them the two japanese carmakers sold more than 80 000 units last year. ford  which has sold 4 000 of its first hybrid since its launch in august  is bringing a hybrid suv - the mariner - to market a year ahead of schedule  with plans for three more models by 2008. gm has a hybrid pickup on the market and is showing two concept suvs in detroit. even sports car maker porsche may join the race  although it insists it is still considering whether to hybridise its cayenne suv.  others remain more sceptical. nissan has bought toyota s hybrid technology  but plans to bring out its first model only in 2006.  we want to make sure we are not concentrating on one technology   nissan chief executive carlos ghosn said.  we will not be surprised by any acceleration or deceleration in the hybrid market.  volkswagen  meanwhile  says it will focus on clean-burning diesel engines instead. and some watchers point out that the price tag on a hybrid - upwards of $3 000 above that of an equivalent normal-engined car  and suspicion of the technology - may still cool its attraction.  the average consumers aren t willing to pay that premium for a car they won t drive more than six years   said anthony pratt from jd power.
wine comedy up for six film gongs sideways  a wine-tasting comedy starring paul giamatti  is up for six independent spirit awards  the art-house version of the oscars.  the awards are held on 26 february  the day before the oscars. spanish drama maria full of grace  about a colombian woman who becomes a drug courier  got five nominations. controversial biopic kinsey  starring liam neeson as sex researcher alfred kinsey  was one of four films to get four nominations. the awards  now in their 20th year  honour quirky low-budget films  all of which must have a degree of independent financing. sideways is written and directed by alexander payne  who directed the 2002 hit about schmidt  winning jack nicholson his 12th academy award nomination.   these awards  for better or worse  mean everything   said sideways producer michael london  adding they were a  huge first step  toward getting recognition from other awards. among the other films receiving four nominations apiece were brother to brother  a drama about a young gay black man forced to live on the streets  robbing peter and primer. primer  a $7 000 (£3 650) tale of discovery  won top prize at the sundance film festival earlier this year. walter salles critically acclaimed the motorcycle diaries and the forthcoming thriller the woodsman  starring kevin bacon  received three nominations each. also in the running  with two nominations  are high school comedy napoleon dynamite  the door in the floor and garden state - written  directed and starring scrubs star zach braff alongside natalie portman. the awards were announced by actors selma blair and dennis quaid in los angeles on tuesday.
borders 19-20 ulster ulster clung on for a morale-boosting celtic league win over bottom club borders at netherdale on friday night.  a late try by borders substitute jonny weston had set up a dramatic finish  but the scottish side could not complete the fightback. ulster had led 20-6 with tries from paul steinmetz and bryn cunningham. but the irish province failed to add to the tally in the second half and ended up relieved to get the win to lift them to eighth place in the table. borders had edged ahead with a sixth-minute penalty by charlie hore - only to hand the visitors the initiative via a gift try. calum macrae surrendered possession before centre steinmetz sent a chip into the danger zone. substitute joe pattison - who had come on for the injured gareth morton - wrongly thought the ball was trickling out of play and eased up on the chase.  the speedy steinmetz had other ideas and he raced up to get the vital touch in the nick of time  giving adam larkin an easy conversion. ally warnock clawed back three points for borders  but they were soon hit by another double-blow. first  mark blair was yellow carded for killing the ball on the ground and then full-back cunningham bagged the second touchdown in the wake of fine work by skipper andy ward. larkin again added the extras. even worse was to come for borders when larkin kicked two more penalties just before the break  the second of which also led to kelly brown being sin-binned. the hosts gave themselves a glimmer of hope immediately after the restart  however  when warnock struck a penalty at the other end. and he repeated the feat to set up the tense finale. ulster coach mark mccall said he was delighted to get the victory.  borders are a tougher proposition this year in spite of the fact that they have not had a victory in some time   said mccall.  in the first 20 minutes we were edgy but in the second 20 minutes we played some of our best rugby this season and scored two good tries.   morton  moffat  macrae  hore  berthinussen  warnock  moore  thomson  ford  douglas  blair  stewart  gray  brown  mcentee.  kay  parr  mcgee  rennick  weston  millar  pattison.  cunningham  maxwell  bell  steinmetz  howe  larkin  campbell  s. best  shields  moore  frost  mccullough  ward  feather  n. best.  brady  mccormick  longwell  browne  doak  s. young  bowe.  phil fear (wru)
berlin celebrates european cinema organisers say this year s berlin film festival  which opens on thursday with period epic man to man  will celebrate a revitalised european cinema.  of the 21 films in competition for the golden and silver bear awards  more than half are from europe with france particularly well represented. festival director dieter kosslick says this strong showing signals  a new consciousness for european films .  they re on an incredible winning streak   he told the reuters agency.  this isn t to say there aren t any good american films   he continued.  it s just that there are more good european films.   however  mr kosslick refused to accept that widespread opposition to the iraq war had turned audiences against hollywood imports.  there is no anti-american mood   he said. some 350 films will be screened at this year s festival  with a further 300 shown at the european film market that runs alongside it. more than a dozen celebrities are scheduled to attend  among them will smith  kevin spacey and keanu reeves. but mr kosslick says more would be coming had the academy awards not been brought forward to 27 february.  i m not worried that we won t be able to fill the red carpet with stars   he said  though he admitted the festival may be moved to january next year to avoid a similar clash. the 10-day berlinale runs until 20 february.
dundee utd 4-1 aberdeen dundee united eased into the semi-final of the scottish cup with an emphatic win over aberdeen.  alan archibald prodded united ahead in 19 minutes and james grady made it two from close range 10 minutes later. richie byrne s header gave aberdeen a way back into the game  but stevie crawford restored united s lead from 18 yards before half time. the scoring was completed by grady just after the break - a superb shot on the turn making it 4-1. tony bullock in the united goal was called into action for the first time with just over a quarter-of-an-hour on the clock. noel whelan laid the ball off to jamie winter on the edge of the box  but his first-time effort was gathered by the united keeper. moments later though  the home side took the lead. barry robson whipped in a free kick from the right  which stevie crawford caught on the volley. russell anderson failed to deal with it and whelan s clearance off the line landed kindly at the feet of archibald  who poked the ball into the net. united doubled their lead after 29 minutes when grady tapped the ball into an empty net after robson had headed mark wilson s cross off the angle of post and bar. but only three minutes later aberdeen clawed their way back into the match. a free kick from the left by winter was met powerfully by the head of byrne at the back post  leaving bullock helpless.  united restored their two-goal lead four minutes before the end of a highly entertaining first half. jason scotland played a perfectly-weighted pass into the path of the onrushing crawford and he coolly beat ryan esson from 18 yards. united ended the game as a contest just two minutes after the interval. grady received a pass from crawford with his back to goal on the edge of the box and after taking one touch  he spun to volley the ball past the despairing dive of esson. the home side were in complete control and it required a good stop from esson to keep out robson s drive after 62 minutes. the keeper denied the same player again 10 minutes later  beating away his fierce shot from the left of the penalty area. robson saw another long-range effort tipped round the post before a cute lob was headed off the line.  bullock  duff  wilson  ritchie  archibald  scotland (samuel 63)  brebner  kerr (cameron 87)  robson  crawford  grady.  colgan  dodds  kenneth.  brebner.  archibald 19  grady 29  crawford 41  grady 47.  esson  hart  anderson  diamond  byrne (morrison 75)  mcnaughton  heikkinen (foster 27)  winter  clark (stewart 51)  mackie  whelan.  blanchard  mcguire.  : anderson  diamond.  byrne 33.  8 661  k clark
connors  rallying cry for british tennis  do you have it in your heart  how much guts do you have  how much do you hate to lose    these are the questions jimmy connors will be asking of britain s brightest tennis hopes in the months  and possibly years  to come. the american legend swept into london on thursday to announce a  long-term  relationship with the lawn tennis association after spending three days at the elite performance winter camp in la manga. and the man who epitomised the phrase  will to win  before lleyton hewitt was even born is clear about the qualities he hopes to convey.  you know  everybody hits the ball well and there s a very fine line between number one and number 100   said connors.  i was that fine line for a long time. but if i can help  i want to be part of teaching kids how to win.   connors is not the first great name to offer his services to the lta - his long-time rival john mcenroe has repeatedly done the same. but connors is at pains to point out that his interest goes well beyond any publicity stunt  and he gave a glowing recommendation to the work of lta performance director david felgate and his team.  britain has a different attitude  the right attitude  in taking the game forward and finding the next wimbledon champion   said connors.  that s something you don t find every day. everybody talks a good game but not everybody puts that into effect.  the impression i came away with after just seeing david and the other coaches for three days was one like i ve never seen before  especially over here.  this is not going to happen overnight  there are no miracle workers  but you re going in the right direction.  the 52-year-old s enthusiasm for the work going on in this country is in marked contrast to his relationship with tennis officials back in america.  i ve had discussions with the usta (united states tennis association) over a number of years   he said.  that s where it (my input) ended.  connors is a straight-talker and will be equally blunt and honest in his dealings with the lta and the cream of britain s young players.  if they re chosen  they ve got to produce   he said.   if not  someone will come and take their place. there s only one number one spot and it s lonely up there  but it s got the best view.  in the year that has seen andrew murray emerge as britain s great new hope  connors rejected suggestions that the scot might be put under too much pressure too soon.  tim henman has a whole country on his shoulder   said connors.  i don t know that pressure  but if you like that it can be a certain push to get on to the next level.  someone s going to have to come and take over from him (henman). if i was andrew murray  i d embrace that. that s what we play for.  despite the emphasis on hard work  training and preparation  connors does admit that the desire required of a champion has to come from within.  the passion i had  i don t know if you can find that   he admitted.  i was also nuts. i say that because there was nothing better for me than to compete on the tennis court.  it was the most important thing in the world for me  and to do that something s got to be not right with you. there was nothing better for me ever than to play tennis in front of 25 000 people.  what i had when i played tennis is what i am. you have to have that  you can t be moulded.
elvis fans hold birthday bash elvis fans around the world have been marking the legendary singer s 70th birthday on saturday.  a three-day elvis convention took place in blackpool  england  over the weekend with the aim of finding the best european elvis impersonator. his graceland  tennessee  home was the focus for us celebrations with four days of events including a concert by the memphis symphony orchestra. elvis  single jailhouse rock became the uk s number one on sunday. fans in france celebrated with a tribute concert by elvis cover bands and a special exhibition of memorabilia is on display in bonn  germany.  jailhouse rock is now the 999th number one single in uk pop history. record company sonybmg are releasing elvis  18 number one singles at the rate of one a week in britain  complete with original artwork and a collector s box. hit single one night will follow next week - with the chance of becoming the 1 000th number one as interest surrounding elvis  birthday grows. hmv spokesman gennaro castaldo said:  it would be a fantastic and truly fitting way to celebrate elvis  landmark birthday.
us peer-to-peer pirates convicted the first convictions for piracy over peer-to-peer networks have been handed down in the us.  new yorker william trowbridge and texan michael chicoine have pleaded guilty to charges that they infringed copyright by illegally sharing music  movies and software. the two men faced charges following raids in august on suspected pirates by the fbi. the pair face jail terms of up to five years and a $250 000 (£130 000) fine.  in a statement the us department of justice said the two men operated the central hubs in a piracy community organised across the direct connect peer-to-peer network. the piracy group called itself the underground network and membership of it demanded that users share between one and 100 gigabytes of files. direct connect allows users to set themselves up as central servers that act as co-ordinating spots for sharers. users would swap files  such as films and music  by exchanging data over the network. during its investigation fbi agents reportedly downloaded 84 movies  40 software programs  13 games and 178  sound recordings  from the five hubs that made up the larger piracy group. the raids were organised under the umbrella of operation digital gridlock which was aimed at fighting  criminal copyright theft on peer-to-peer networks . in total  six raids were carried out in august. five were on the homes of suspected copyright thieves and one on a net service firm. the department of justice said that both men pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to commit felony copyright infringement. they also pleaded guilty to acting for commercial advantage. the two men are due to be sentenced on 29 april.
early elvis recordings go on sale some of elvis presley s earliest recordings - including takes of all shook up - are going under the hammer on sunday at a los angeles auction.  the six unedited reel-to-reel tapes - which were owned by the engineer who recorded them - are valued at up to $50 000 (£29 000). highlights of the two hour-long collection will get their public debut at bonhams auction house on saturday. the rca tapes date from september 1956 to september 1957. the  pre-masters  include a take of jailhouse rock  religious songs  material for his first christmas album  and banter between presley  members of his band and engineer thorne nogar.   we ve had them for a lot of years  and i think the people should enjoy them   nogar s son stephen  57  said.  and frankly  we could use the money.  nogar  who died in 1994 aged 72  always used to make two tapes of sessions as a back-up in case rca producers wanted to make late changes to songs.  he called them his ass-saver tapes   his son said. the quality is said to be noticeably crisper than that of a new vinyl record. because the family does not own the copyright to the music  the tapes can only be sold for  personal enjoyment  and they cannot be copied for commercial gain.
what high-definition will do to dvds first it was the humble home video  then it was the dvd  and now hollywood is preparing for the next revolution in home entertainment - high-definition.  high-definition gives incredible  3d-like pictures and surround sound. the dvd disks and the gear to play them will not be out for another year or so  and there at are still a number of issues to be sorted out. but when high-definition films do come out on the new format dvds  it will profoundly change home entertainment. for rick dean  director of business development for digital content company thx  a high-definition future is an exciting prospect. he has worked on the star wars dvd trilogy  finding nemo  the incredibles and indiana jones.  there was a time not so long ago when the film world and the video world were two completely separate worlds   he told the bbc news website.   the technology we are dealing with now means they are very much conjoined.  the film that we see in theatres is coming from the same digital file that we take the home video master   he says. but currently  putting a master feature film onto dvd requires severe compression because current dvd technology cannot hold as much as high-definition films demand.  as much as you compress the picture data rate wise  you also take qualities away from the picture that we fight so hard to keep in the master   he explains.  i would love to be able to show people what projects that we worked on really look like in the high-def world and i find it very exciting.   high-definition dvds can hold up to six times more data than the dvds we are used to. it will take time though to persuade people who spent money on dvd players to buy the different players and displays required to watch high-definition dvds in 18 months  time. mr dean is confident though:  i think if they see real hd [high-definition]  not some heavily compressed version of it  there is such a remarkable difference.  i have heard comments from people who say the images pop off the screen.   high-definition will mean some changes for those working behind the scenes too. on the whole  producing films for high-definition dvds will be easier in some ways because less compression is needed. equally  it may mean hollywood studios ask for more to be put onto the average dvd.  when we master movies right now  our data rates are running at about 1.2 gigabits per second   says mr dean.  our dvds that we put out today have to be squashed down to about five or six megabits per second.  that s a huge amount of compression that has to be applied - about 98%. so if you have anything that allows more space  you don t have to compress so hard.  studios could fit a lot more marketing material  games  and features  onto high-capacity dvds. currently  an entire dvd project can take up to three months  says mr dean. although the step of down-converting will be bypassed  this will realistically only save a day s work  says mr dean. one of the most time consuming elements is building dvd navigation and menu systems. on the fairly complex star wars disks  making sure the menu buttons worked took 45 human hours alone. if studios want to cash in on the extra space  it could mean extra human hours  for which someone has to pay.  if the decision on the studio side is that they are going to put a lot more on these disks  it could be more expensive because of all the extra navigation that is required.  and if studios do focus on delivering more  added value content   thinks mr dean  ultimately it could mean that they will want more money for it. those costs could filter down to the price ticket on a high-definition dvd. but if the consumer is not willing to pay a premium price  studios will listen  thinks mr dean.  high-definition throws up other challenge to film makers and dvd production alike. more clarity on screen means film makers have to make doubly sure that attention to detail is meticulous.  when we did the first hd version of star wars episode i  everybody was very sun-tanned  but that was make-up.  in the hd version of episode i  all these make-up lines showed up   explains mr dean. the restoration of the older star wars episodes revealed some interesting items too.   there are scans of a corridor [on the death star] and fairly plainly in one of those shots  there is a file cabinet stuck behind one of the doorways.  you never used to be able to see it because things are just blurred enough during the pan that you just didn t see it.  what high-definition revolution ultimately means is that the line between home entertainment and cinema worlds will blur. with home theatre systems turning living rooms into cinemas  this line blurs even further. it could also mean that how we get films  and in what format  will widen.  in the future we are going to look towards file delivery over ip [internet protocol - broadband]  giving a dvd-like experience from the set-top box to the hard drive   says mr dean. but that is some time off for most  and for now  people still like to show off something physical in their bookshelves.
gronkjaer agrees switch to madrid jesper gronkjaer has agreed a move to atletico madrid from birmingham city.  the 27-year-old winger spent just five months at st andrews following a £2.2m move from chelsea in july after playing for denmark at euro 2004. he is set to move during the january transfer window in a deal rumoured to be about £1.4m  subject to a medical.  we will meet with the player s representative to finalise the contract and decide when he will sign   said atletico sporting director toni munoz. gronkjaer has been targeted by blues fans and was sarcastically applauded when taken off against everton last month. boss steve bruce had said that he would be happy to let the danish international go if the price was right. he added:  i m not going to say the decision to let him go is down to the fans  reaction towards him.   he has had a tough time since the summer with the loss of his mother and finding it difficult to adjust to a new club and a different area.  he has been terrific and not missed a day s training and is someone if your daughter brought them home you would be delighted.  it just hasn t quite worked out here for him. but we d like to get back most of what we spent.
new york rockers top talent poll new york electro-rock group the bravery have come top of the bbc news website s sound of 2005 poll to find the music scene s most promising new act.  the bravery  who have been compared to the cure and new order  were the most heavily-tipped act in the survey of 110 impartial critics and broadcasters. rock band keane won sound of 2004 while us rapper 50 cent topped sound of 2003. other new artists in this year s list include london indie group bloc party at second and uk rapper kano third. the bravery played their first gig in 2003 and have since supported bands including the libertines  interpol and echo and the bunnymen.  they were the subject of a record company bidding war in 2004 and their debut single  unconditional  caused a huge buzz when it was released in the uk in november. singer sam endicott said he felt  great  about coming top of the sound of 2005 list.  anyone that says they don t want a zillion screaming fans is a jackass  a liar   he said. one of the experts to tip the bravery was the times  music critic paul connolly  who said they were  spiky but in love with pop . chris hawkins  host of bbc 6 music s chart show  said the band had  great guitars and a mastery of the electro-clash sound .  the bravery are proof alone that new york city is still home to hot new talent   he said. alison howe  producer of tv show later... with jools holland  booked the group to appear the day after seeing them at a west london pub.   they played like they were headlining the main stage at glastonbury   she said.  great songs  a good look  a touch of attitude and a cracking live band.   q magazine reviews editor ted kessler said they were  pretty-boy new york clothes horses  with  an unusually nimble ear for concise  yearning pop in the mould of duran duran or the strokes . other pundits to take part in the survey included bbc radio 1 dj trevor nelson  nme editor conor mcnicholas  top of the pops presenter fearne cotton  glastonbury organiser emily eavis and bbc radio 2 music editor colin martin. elsewhere on the top 10  second-placed rock band bloc party began their rise after supporting franz ferdinand and uk garage mc kano  in third  is signed to the streets  record label. us rapper the game is hip-hop great dr dre s latest protege while leeds group kaiser chiefs came fifth with a promise to lead a britpop revival. in last year s survey  keane were followed by franz ferdinand  razorlight and joss stone in the top five - all of whom were virtually unknown outside the music industry at that point.  boy band mcfly were sixth while scissor sisters  who had the uk s best-selling album of 2004  were seventh. in the survey  the pundits were asked for tips for three acts they thought were capable of reaching the top in their chosen genre  either in terms of sales or critical acclaim. the artists could be from any country and any musical genre  but must not have had a uk top 20 single  been a contestant on a tv talent show or already be famous for doing something else  such as a soap actor. those tips were then counted and compiled to make the top 10.
mps demand  budget leak  answers ministers have been asked to explain how budget details were printed in a london newspaper half an hour before gordon brown made his speech.  the tories said a large chunk of the budget appeared to have been leaked in what they describe as a  serious breach of treasury confidentiality . the lib dems called for commons leader peter hain to make a statement and said chancellors had resigned over leaks. they were told it would be brought to speaker michael martin s attention. in the commons  tory frontbencher andrew tyrie mp demanded an immediate ministerial statement about how measures had been  clearly  or at least apparently  leaked to the evening standard .  raising a point of order  he said it was  the latest in a long line of discourtesies to this house   as well as a breach of confidentiality. he said:  i can only hope it is unintentional. if it were planned it would be a very grave matter indeed. a previous labour chancellor resigned after he leaked the budget.  hugh dalton resigned after leaking details of his 1947 budget to journalist john carvel  who published them in a london newspaper  just minutes before they were announced to the house of commons. liberal democrat david laws said it was a  very serious matter  and said mr hain should make a statement on thursday. deputy speaker sylvia heal agreed it was  of concern  but said nothing could be done immediately but the issue would be brought to mr martin s attention.
mobile audio enters new dimension as mobile phones move closer to being a ubiquitous  all-in-one media player  audio is becoming ever more important. but how good can that sound be from such a small device   the sound of a buzzing bee jumps from left to right before disappearing around the back of my head. the surround sound demo is unremarkable when heard on a multi-speaker home cinema system but startling when emerging from a small mobile phone. british firm sonaptic is one of a number of companies to have developed 3d audio technology that emerges from stereo speakers. firms am3d and srs both offer stereo-widening technology for mobile phones. but sonaptic s managing director david monteith says his firm is the only company to offer positional 3d audio on a mobile.   there are quite a few basic technologies out there  making the sound seem a bit bigger  headphones a bit nicer.   no-one has really tried before to make proper 3d positional audio - where an individual channel can be moved around.  sonaptic has been working with japanese mobile network ntt docomo to set standards for 3d audio on mobile phones. in the last few months handsets from nec  fujitsu and mitsubishi have been released on to the japanese marker which have chips produced by yamaha and rohm with sonaptic s technology.  the technology has been around on pcs and games consoles for some time but what we are doing is making it more efficient so it can go on a small consumer device like a mobile phone   said mr monteith.  the technology works through applying the science of psychoacoustics and grew out of medical research done by the company s research director dr alastair sibbald.  we are basically trying to fool your ears into thinking sound is coming from areas it actually isn t.  your brain uses certain bits of information which we are effectively synthesising on a mobile phone handset.  the structure of the ear works as a 3d encoder for sound - helping the brain understand from where sound is emanating. sonaptic s audio processing algorithms mimic that 3d encoding  giving the impression that sound is coming from the left  right  and behind a listener when in fact it is coming from a single source. mr montieth says:  if the sound is off to one side it will get to one ear before the other - if it is on the right it has to bend around your head to get to your left ear.   the shape of your ear causes differences in sound from one ear to the other. we are synthesising those differences.  sonaptic hopes the technology will have a big impact in the growing market of mobile gaming and music downloading.  handhelds often have limitations - screens will be small by definition.  if you want to get impact from media you are running - either a movie  a game or watching tv - if you want it to be more immersive then our technology can help.  a fishing game is the first title to use the technology  creating a 3d sound field while the gamer plays. driving games and shoot  em ups using the technology are in development. the technology can also be used for music - giving songs a much more expansive and immersive feel. sonaptic offers its technology on a chip or in software and is about to release a new version which significantly improves the efficiency of the audio processing.  it s important we only use 10 or 15% of the processor otherwise you won t be able to play a game on the handset   explained mr montieth. the company is now looking to the us and european markets  where it has been working with network vodafone.  we have focused first on japan because it has a very advanced mobile phone market.  we knew japan would be the first place to have the handsets that could use our technology.  there should be handsets out in the uk in the next six months.
fast moving phone viruses appear security firms are warning about several mobile phone viruses that can spread much faster than similar bugs.  the new strains of the cabir mobile phone virus use short-range radio technology to leap to any vulnerable phone as soon as it is in range. the cabir virus only affects high-end handsets running the symbian series 60 phone operating system. despite the warnings  there are so far no reports of any phones being infected by the new variants of cabir.  the original cabir worm came to light in mid-june 2004 when it was sent to anti-virus firms as a proof-of-concept program. a mistake in the way the original cabir was written meant that even if it escaped from the laboratory  the bug would only have been able to infect one phone at a time.  however  the new cabir strains have this mistake corrected and will spread via short range bluetooth technology to any vulnerable phone in range. bluetooth has an effective range of a few tens of metres. the risk of being infected by cabir is low because users must give the malicious program permission to download on to their handset and then must manually install it. users can protect themselves by altering a setting on symbian phones that conceals the handset from other bluetooth using devices. finnish security firm f-secure issued a warning about the new strains of cabir but said that the viruses do not do any damage to a phone. all they do is block normal bluetooth activity and drain the phone s battery. anti-virus firm sophos said the source code for cabir had been posted on the net by a brazilian programmer which might lead to even more variants of the program being created. so far seven versions of cabir are know to exist  one of which was inside the malicious skulls program that was found in late november. symbian s series 60 software is licenced by nokia  lg electronics  lenovo  panasonic  samsung  sendo and siemens.
jamieson issues warning to bigots scotland s justice minister has warned bigoted soccer fans that she wants to hit them  where it hurts most  by banning them from matches.  cathy jamieson said exclusion orders are one of a series of measures being considered in the scottish executive campaign against sectarianism. she praised celtic and rangers for their work in tackling the problem. however  the minister said stopping sectarian abuse associated with old firm matches is a key objective. ms jamieson was speaking ahead of the third round scottish cup clash between the glasgow clubs at parkhead on sunday. the sectarianism long associated with sections of the support from both clubs has become a significant target for the executive. last week ms jamieson and first minister jack mcconnell met supporters  representatives from both clubs to discuss the issue.  they plan to hold an anti-sectarian summit next month with officials from the clubs  church leaders  senior police officers and local authority chiefs among those to be invited. speaking on bbc radio scotland s sunday live programme  ms jamieson described friday s meeting as  very productive  and said putting the squeeze on the bigots would be a key aim. ms jamieson stressed that sectarianism has not been confined to football but it can act as a  trigger  for tensions and violence. clubs have taken action in the past to ban troublesome fans and supporters  groups expressed their desire to ensure that the game is no longer tainted by the problem.  ms jamieson said the executive should have a role in tackling the soccer troublemakers. she said:  we can t get away from the fact that in some instances some of the religious hatred that some people try to associate with football boils over into violence.  that is the kind of thing we want to stop and that s the kind of thing supporters  groups are very clear they don t want to be part of either  and they will work with us to try and deal with that.   ms jamieson praised the police for their action and said:  the police do want to identify whether there are particular individuals who are going over the top and inciting hatred or violence - they will crack down very effectively on them.  we have of course already indicated that we will consider the introduction of banning orders to give additional powers to where there are people who are going over the top  who have made inappropriate behaviour at football matches  to be able to stop them attending the games.  that s the kind of thing that will hit those kind of people where it hurts the most in not allowing them to attend the games   she said. praising celtic and rangers for their efforts  she said:  i don t think there is any doubt that we have seen some positive moves from the clubs.  both rangers and celtic football clubs have been involved in working with the executive to produce  for example  an educational pack for young people.
japan turns to beer alternatives japanese brewers are increasingly making money from beer-flavoured drinks rather than beer itself  beer and spirits are heavily taxed in japan  driving breweries to search for alternatives. japan s long economic downturn helped drive the trend  as drinkers looked for cheaper opportunities to drown their sorrows. now  according to asahi breweries  the market for so-called  beer-like  drinks is set to grow 84% this year.  asahi is predicting profits to rise 50% in 2005 as it launches a drink based on soybean peptides rather than malt. the chosen name   shinnama  or  new draft   disguises its non-beer nature. but despite a record profit in 2004 of 30.6bn yen ($291m; £154m)  up 31.8% on the previous year  asahi is coming late to the market. key rival sapporo is already well-established with the beer-flavoured  draft one . suntory  meanwhile  is doing well with  super blue   which combines happoshu - an existing low-cost beer alternative made with malt and seawater - and shochu  a distilled alcohol derived from sweet potatoes or barley. happoshu has been a mainstay of brewery profits for years  taking over from beer thanks to its low tax and therefore low cost. kirin  the fourth big name  is launching its own  third-type  drink in april.
boeing unveils new 777 aircraft us aircraft firm boeing has unveiled its new long-distance 777 plane  as it tries to regain its position as the industry s leading manufacturer.  the 777-200lr will be capable of flying almost 11 000 miles non-stop  linking cities such as london and sydney. boeing  in contrast to european rival airbus  hopes airlines will want to fly smaller aircraft over longer distances. airbus  which overtook boeing as the number one civilian planemaker in 2003  is focusing on so-called super jumbos.  analysts are divided over which approach is best and say that this latest tussle between boeing and airbus may prove to be a defining moment for the airline industry. boeing plans to offer twin-engine planes that are able to fly direct to many of the world s airports  getting rid of the need for connecting flights.  it is banking on smaller  slimmer planes such as the 777-200lr and its much-anticipated 787 dreamliner plane  which is set to take to the skies in 2008. the 777-200lr  which had its launch delayed by the 11 september attacks in the us  is the fifth variation of boeing s twin-aisle 777 plane. the company offically  rolled-out  the new 777 in seattle at 2200 gmt. better fuel efficiency from engines made by ge and lighter materials mean that the plane can connect almost any two cities worldwide.   boeing has the latest variant in a very successful line of airplanes and there is no doubt it will continue to be very successful   said david learmount  operations and safety editor at industry magazine flight international. but the 777-200lr  is a niche player   mr learmount continued  adding that reach was not the only criteria airlines used when picking their aircraft. mr learmount pointed out that the 777-200lr has been on the market for a couple of years and only had limited success at attracting orders. he also said that while the plane may be able to fly to sydney from london in one hit  prevailing winds meant that it would have to stop somewhere on the return journey.  for airbus  the future is big - it is pinning its hopes on planes that can carry as many as 840 people between large hub airports. from there  passengers would be ferried to their final destinations by smaller planes. airbus is also keeping its options open and plans to compete in all the main categories of aircraft. it has been producing a rival to boeing s 777 line for more than a year.  airbus is now where boeing was a few years ago  with its product range  said flight international s mr learmount.  both boeing and airbus have been taking orders for their new planes. boeing said it expected to sell about 500 of its 777-200lr planes over the next 20 years. it already has orders from pakistan international airlines and eva of taiwan. these orders should help underpin the company s profits. boeing said earnings during the last three months of 2004 dropped by 84% because of costs relating to stopping production of its smallest airliner  the 717  and the cancellation of a us air force 767 tanker contract. net profit was $186m (£98m; 143m euros) in the quarter  compared with $1.13bn in the same period in 2003.
baa support ahead of court battle uk airport operator baa has reiterated its support for the government s aviation expansion plans to airports throughout the country.  the comments come a day ahead of a high court challenge by residents  groups and local councils to the government s white paper. the judicial review will centre on government plans for expansion at heathrow  stansted and luton airports. baa  which operates all three  said it was consulting with local communities.  we are...consulting on voluntary compensation schemes which go beyond our statutory obligations   a baa spokesman said.  groups challenging the plans include stop stansted expansion  heathrow anti-noise campaigners hacan clearskies and the london boroughs of hillingdon and wandsworth. at heathrow  gatwick  edinburgh and glasgow airports  baa launched a series of consultations on blight to properties from the proposed expansion in september 2004  which will close next week. the company is also offering to buy noise-hit properties for an index-linked  unblighted price. among other measures  baa has set up a homeowner support scheme for people living near stansted  and has launched a special scheme for those close to the airport but far enough away not to be covered by the homeowner scheme. at heathrow  baa said it was working closely with all interested parties to see how the strict environmental  air quality and noise targets for a third runway can be met.  at gatwick  the company has written to homes and business likely to be affected by any extra runway. stop stansted expansion said the white paper  published in december 2003  was  fundamentally flawed  and did not follow the proper consultation process.  we do not underestimate the scale of the challenge before us because the courts have never before overturned a government white paper   said stop stansted expansion chairman peter sanders said. hacan chairman john stewart said:  almost exactly a year ago the government published its 30-year aviation white paper with much fanfare.  it hoped that would be the end of the debate and it could proceed with its plans for a massive expansion of aviation.  yet  a year later the protesters are still here  and stronger than ever.   a judgement from mr justice sullivan is expected early in february.
jobs growth still slow in the us the us created fewer jobs than expected in january  but a fall in jobseekers pushed the unemployment rate to its lowest level in three years.  according to labor department figures  us firms added only 146 000 jobs in january. the gain in non-farm payrolls was below market expectations of 190 000 new jobs. nevertheless it was enough to push down the unemployment rate to 5.2%  its lowest level since september 2001. the job gains mean that president bush can celebrate - albeit by a very fine margin - a net growth in jobs in the us economy in his first term in office. he presided over a net fall in jobs up to last november s presidential election - the first president to do so since herbert hoover. as a result  job creation became a key issue in last year s election. however  when adding december and january s figures  the administration s first term jobs record ended in positive territory.  the labor department also said it had revised down the jobs gains in december 2004  from 157 000 to 133 000.  analysts said the growth in new jobs was not as strong as could be expected given the favourable economic conditions.  it suggests that employment is continuing to expand at a moderate pace   said rick egelton  deputy chief economist at bmo financial group.  we are not getting the boost to employment that we would have got given the low value of the dollar and the still relatively low interest rate environment.   the economy is producing a moderate but not a satisfying amount of job growth   said ken mayland  president of clearview economics.  that means there are a limited number of new opportunities for workers.
bt program to beat dialler scams bt is introducing two initiatives to help beat rogue dialler scams  which can cost dial-up net users thousands.  from may  dial-up net users will be able to download free software to stop computers using numbers not on a user s  pre-approved list . inadvertently downloaded by surfers  rogue diallers are programs which hijack modems and dial up a premium rate number when users log on. thousands of uk dial-up users are believed to have been hit by the scam. some people have faced phone bills of up to £2 000. bt s modem protection program will check numbers that are dialled by a computer and will block them if they have not been pre-approved  such as national and net service provider numbers. icstis  the uk s premium rate services watchdog  said it had been looking for companies to take the lead in initiatives.  the initiatives are very welcome   a spokesperson from icstis told the bbc news website.  we are very pleased to see they are putting into place new measures to protect consumers.   the second initiative bt announced is an early warning system which will alert bt customers if there is unusual activity on their phone bills. if a bill rises substantially above its usual daily average  or if a call is made to a suspect number  a text or voice alert will be sent to the user s landline phone. as part of the clamp-down on rogue diallers  companies must now satisfy stringent conditions  including clear terms and conditions  information about how to delete diallers and responsibility for customer refunds. any firm running a dialler without permission can now be closed down by icstis. the watchdog brought in the action last october following a decision to license all companies which wanted to operate legitimate premium rate dialler services.  there are legitimate companies who offer services such as adult content  sports results and music downloads by charging a premium rate rather than by credit card bt said it had ploughed an enormous amount of effort into protecting people from the problem. it has already barred more than 1 000 premium rate numbers and has tried to raise public awareness about the scams.  we now want to ensure there are even stronger safeguards for our customers  who we would urge to make use of these new options to protect themselves   said gavin patterson  group managing director for consumer the arm of bt. both schemes have been undergoing trials in ireland  and will be made available to 20 million bt customers from may.
beckham rules out management move real madrid midfielder david beckham has no plans to become a manager when his playing career is over.   i am not interested in being a coach but i would like to have football schools   the england captain said on television station canal plus.  i have wanted to do that since i went to the bobby charlton school. i m going to open one in london and one in la.  my second passion is charity work - i am an ambassador for unicef and it gives me great pride.  but beckham revealed that his immediate priority was winning the spanish league title with real madrid.  real slipped to 13 points behind leaders barcelona with a 1-0 defeat at the hands of sevilla on wednesday. beckham admitted:  it s disappointing and frustrating to see the results  considering the team we have.  i would really like to win la liga with real madrid - i have been here two years and we still have not done it.  in a wide-ranging interview  beckham also revealed that his sending-off against argentina - and the resulting media storm - had been the most significant moment in his career. asked for his worst memory  he said:  to be sent off against argentina - it was not for the sending-off but for what happened afterwards.  i was lucky because i had a manager  sir alex ferguson  who supported me and a strong family behind me but i believe that changed me.  i believe it changed me for the better.
visa row mandarin made sir john the top civil servant at the centre of the david blunkett visa affair has been knighted in the new year honours.  sir john gieve was home office permanent secretary during the saga which ended with mr blunkett quitting. he and other civil servants were criticised for failing to recall how the visa for mr blunkett s ex-lover s nanny came to be fast-tracked. the outgoing head of the troubled child support agency doug smith also earns an honour in the new year s list. mr smith  57  whose retirement was announced by work and pensions secretary alan smith in november  is made a commander of the order of bath.  both men were giving evidence to a commons committee on the computer difficulties facing the agency  which left thousands of single parents without any maintenance payments  when the announcement was made. the knighting of sir john  54  will be received with astonishment by opposition politicians.  the liberal democrats said it  beggared belief  he and fellow officials could not remember how leoncia casalme s application for indefinite leave to remain went from mr blunkett s office to the head of the immigration and nationality department. meanwhile  the conservatives accused officials of a  collective failure  of memory. but sir alan budd  who led an inquiry into the affair  said he had no reason to believe anyone involved had deliberately withheld information.  downing street defended the decision to honour both men  with a spokesperson saying:  you have to look at their whole career.  sir john was made permanent secretary in april 2001 following a civil service career which dates back to 1974. he has also worked in the treasury and the department of employment. a department for work and pensions spokeswoman said of mr smith s honour:  the award reflects all that he has achieved in a civil service career  principally in the inland revenue  spanning over 40 years - not just his role as chief executive of the child support agency.   in his career he has personally led a number of successful major change programmes.  mr smith is set to stay on at the csa until march. less controversial will be the knighthoods for derek wanless and mike tomlinson  who undertook major government reviews on health and education respectively. former natwest chief executive mr wanless  57  has delivered not one but two major reports on the nhs. ex-chief inspector of schools mr tomlinson  62  has recommended replacing a-levels and gcses with a new diploma system in a shake-up of the exams system.
final hunts held as ban looms hunts in england and wales have begun on the last day that hunting with dogs is legal  with more due out later.  thousands of supporters are expected to turn out at more than 250 meets  many of which have altered their normal schedules to be out on a thursday. the ban on hunting with dogs comes into effect from 0001 gmt on friday. the countryside alliance had its latest legal bid to block the ban thwarted on wednesday when the appeal court ruled the hunting act was lawful.  but the group says hunting will continue in some form after the ban comes in  with hunts expected to test the new law to its limits. others are expected to defy the ban by continuing to hunt illegally.  anti-hunt organisations  for whom the ban is the culmination of years of campaigning  say they hope most will stay within the law. mike hobday  of the league against cruel sports  told bbc news:  we ve long urged them to go drag hunting - to follow an artificial scent - and that is what we hope they do.  but if they continue to chase foxes  to chase wild mammals around the countryside  that s against the law and we re confident they ll be brought to justice.  at the headquarters of quorn hunt in leicestershire  feelings were running high as hunt enthusiasts prepared for their final legal hunt. bbc correspondent sarah mukherjee said hunt supporters were in tears.  she said many people did not share the countryside alliance s optimism that hunting would be able to continue. farmer geoff brooks  a senior member of the quorn hunt  told bbc news people s lives  revolved around hunting . he described the ban as  ridiculous  and  badly thought out  but said it would be hard for most people to defy it as they would not want to risk their incomes by getting a criminal record.  at the court of appeal on wednesday  the countryside alliance failed in its attempt to have the hunting act ruled invalid. but it says the ban is unenforceable because the law is unclear and impossible to police.  the alliance says hunt supporters will go out and test this law to its limits on saturday. the league against cruel sports and the rspca say they will monitor hunts and assist police in bringing prosecutions. the association of chief police officers has issued guidance to forces on how to deal with the new rules. a spokesman said:  basically  it s not going to be police officers chasing about in cars across fields  it will be based on intelligence and information received as well.  the decision on how to police individual hunts will be left to local forces  with more officers sent to hunts where disruption is expected. he said police would consider evidence submitted by anti-hunt organisations on its merits.
boris opposes mayor apology ken livingstone should  stick to his guns  and not apologise for his  nazi  comment to a jewish reporter  tory mp boris johnson has insisted.  mr johnson also claimed tony blair s intervention in the row was  an attempt to reassure jewish voters . london mayor mr livingstone says he is  standing by  his remarks which likened an evening standard journalist to a  concentration camp guard . but the prime minister says it is time for mr livingstone to say sorry.  labour s mr livingstone has said his comments may have been offensive but were not racist  and said earlier this week he would not apologise even if mr blair asked. later the prime minister said:  a lot of us in politics get angry with journalists from time to time  but in the circumstances  and to the journalist because he was a jewish journalist  yes  he should apologise.   however  mr johnson  who was forced to apologise last year for an article in the magazine he edits about liverpudlians grieving over the death of british hostage ken bigley  said mr blair  should butt out of  the row.  i don t see why the prime minister has to get involved in this   the spectator editor told bbc radio 4 s today programme.  it s a dispute between ken livingstone and a reporter on the evening standard.  mr johnson  mp for henley-on-thames  oxfordshire  said he suspected labour was now trying to reassure jewish voters  because of this curious way in which labour seems to be trying to curry favour with disillusioned muslim voters who may be disillusioned about the war .   ken doesn t think he s got anything to say sorry for and if that s really his feeling  then i think that he should stick to his guns   he said. mr johnson apologised last october for perpetuating an  outdated stereotype  of liverpool in the leader article on the death of mr bigley. the article in the magazine suggested grieving liverpudlians were wallowing in their victim status. it also attributed blame to drunken liverpool football fans for the 1989 hillsborough disaster in which 96 died. mr johnson told today:  it s perfectly true that i got into the grovelling game myself and when i apologised there were some things that i felt i ought to say sorry for ... there were also other things i didn t think i should apologise for   he said.  but here s old ken - he s been crass  he s been insensitive and thuggish and brutal in his language - but i don t think actually if you read what he said  although it was extraordinary and rude  i don t think he was actually anti-semitic.
imf agrees fresh turkey funding turkey has agreed a draft proposal with the international monetary fund to borrow $10bn (£5.19bn)  extending its ongoing financial support until 2007.  turkey s current $18.6bn loan agreement with the imf expires in february and the new deal would see it receive added support between 2005 and 2007. in return for the funding  turkey would be expected to keep inflation under control and introduce market reforms. turkey s economy has steadily recovered from a severe crisis in 2001.  economic growth has average 6-7% in the past three years  ahead of imf forecasts  while inflation fell below 10% this year for the first time in 30 years. however  turkey has a huge debt burden - already owing $23bn to the imf - while its current account deficit has swelled to $10.7bn this year.  the turkish economics minister  ali babacan  said the two sides had reached general agreement on a new three year funding program. rodrigo de rato  the imf s managing director  said the loan agreement would help to improve turkish economic prospects by cutting its debt and stimulating growth.  i believe the new programme  if implemented successfully  will help turkey create the conditions for sustained growth and employment creation  reduce inflation toward european level and enhance the economy s resilience   he said. the agreement must still be ratified by imf directors at a meeting expected to take place next month.  the agreement would also enable turkey to defer payments on previous loans worth $3.7m until 2006.  as part of the draft agreement  turkey has signed a  letter of intent  stating its determination to push through far-reaching reforms to its tax and benefits system and its banking sector. such reforms are considered vital for turkey if it is to fulfil its ambition of joining the european union. the eu will decide on 17 december whether to begin entry talks with turkey. the us  the largest of the imf s 184 members  is a strong supporter of continued financial support for turkey.
aviator  creator  in oscars snub the man who said he got oscar-nominated movie the aviator off the ground and signed up leonardo dicaprio has been shut out of the academy awards race.  charles evans jr battled over his role with the people who eventually made the film  and won a producer s credit. but he is not on the list of producers who can win a best film oscar due to a limit on the number of nominees. the oscars organisers have picked two of the aviator s four producers to be nominated for best film.  up to three producers can be named per film but the studios behind the aviator and million dollar baby failed to trim their credits - so the academy of motion pictures arts and sciences (ampas) has done it for them. the aviator s nominated producers are michael mann and graham king - with mr evans and sandy climan  mr mann s former deputy  left off. mr evans sued mr mann in 2001  claiming he came up with the idea  spent years developing it and persuaded dicaprio to play hughes - but said he was later excluded from the project. the two sides settled out of court in a deal that has remained secret apart from the fact mr evans  name has appeared as a producer when the film s credits roll. at the golden globes  mr evans - who was named among the winners when the film won best drama film - evaded a security guard to have his photo taken with dicaprio  director martin scorsese  mr mann and mr king.  ampas decided to limit the number of producers who could be nominated after shakespeare in love s victory in 1999 saw five producers collect awards. the eligible names for the aviator and million dollar baby were decided by ampas  producers branch executive committee on wednesday. the decision also saw clint eastwood get his third personal nomination for million dollar baby. he is now named in the best film category as well as being nominated for best director and best lead actor. the academy awards ceremony will be held in hollywood on 27 february. chinese actress ziyi zhang  star of crouching tiger  hidden dragon  hero and house of flying daggers  is the latest name to be added to the list of presenters on the night.
no ads for passion oscar campaign producer mel gibson will not be using paid advertisements to promote the passion of the christ to voters in next year s academy awards.  gibson and his icon productions partner bruce davey said they would not be campaigning in print  radio or tv for success at the oscars in february.  this film should be judged on its artistic merit  not who spends more money on advertising   davey said. but dvds will be sent to oscar voters  who will be invited to screenings. icon spent very little on advertising the film  which deals with the last hours of jesus christ s life  when it was released earlier this year - instead  it made the film available for special screenings at churches. it went on to gross over $600m (£322m) in ticket sales worldwide. over recent years  marketing films to the members of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences has become a multi-million dollar industry. last year  the academy formed a committee to tighten the rules after the campaigns spilled over into personal attacks between studios. academy president frank pierson praised gibson s move for working to restore the oscars as a  celebration and appreciation of excellence   and resisting the  crass commercialisation that was threatening the integrity of the award .
sydney to host north v south game sydney will host a northern versus southern hemisphere charity match in june or july  the australian rugby union (aru) said on wednesday.  the match will include players from the lions tour of new zealand.  the australian rugby union has thrown its support behind a proposed north-south match to raise funds for the tsunami appeals   the aru said. the date is yet to be decided but the most likely venue is sydney s olympic stadium. aru chief executive gary flowers said the world cricket charity match in melbourne earlier this month had inspired the aru.  we still need to discuss the options with the irb (international rugby board)  the lions and our sanzar (south africa  new zealand and australia rugby) partners  but june or july is seen as a better option than march to ensure we have the cream of southern hemisphere rugby available   he said. wallabies captain george gregan said the charity match was a  great initiative . tri-nations rivals australia  new zealand and south africa would feature prominently in a southern team against a northern side comprised of six nations teams france  ireland  england  wales  italy and scotland. coach clive woodward s lions squad will tour new zealand in june and july  including tests on 25 june  2 and 9 july.  almost 80 000 fans packed into melbourne cricket ground on 10 january for a charity match that raised £5.9m for victims of the asian tsunami.
booming markets shed few tears the market  former british government minister michael heseltine once said  has no morality.  and indeed  stock exchange traders around asia have wasted little time regretting the victims of this week s disaster. stock markets in indonesia and india have hit all-time highs this week; even in sri lanka  more comprehensively affected  the main index has lost only 5% since the waves hit. bigger markets further afield have barely twitched. the msci world share index  a measure of global stock market performance  hit its highest level this week since early 2001; the bbc global 30 has risen by 3% in the past week. and this at a time when - all sentiment aside - insurance costs are already estimated in the tens of billions of dollars  and countries around the region are looking at trimming their growth forecasts.  in fact  the markets are being perfectly rational.  for a start  the notional insurance cost of the disaster will have little bearing on corporate bottom lines. the overwhelming majority of the victims will have had no insurance: according to estimates from india  only one-quarter of those affected there were wealthy enough to afford insurance  and only one-quarter of that group at most will have taken out policies. indonesia is likely to have even lower take-up rates. and where insurance certainly is in place - in  for example  the many tourist complexes affected - the costs will be borne in far-away corners of the global reinsurance market  rather than landing locally.  second  stock markets do not trade the sort of companies likely to have been damaged. most of the biggest companies traded on the soaring jakarta stock exchange are in oil  technology and financial services - none of which have been hit by the flooding. tourist businesses  the most likely sufferers  are either foreign-owned or too small to have their shares listed. those that are listed have suffered: confifi hotel holdings  a small sri lankan tourism firm  has halved in value this week. but there are winners as well as losers. asian stock markets are heavily inclined towards property and construction companies  many of which will be rubbing their hands over the reconstruction opportunities. in indonesia  shares in state construction companies adhi karya and semen gresik have jumped sharply this week.  more broadly  the academic consensus is that major disasters are largely neutral in their longer-term economic impact.  according to the natural hazards research and applications information center at colorado state university  there is little evidence that disasters are inevitably followed by a depression. the need to find money to replace lost and damaged property is balanced by the beneficial effect of reconstruction activity; there is rarely  the centre says  any sort of rebuilding boom  but in most cases sizeable indirect losses are avoided. a study of the 1993 des moines floods  from the disaster research center at the university of delaware*  found that 70% of local businesses were no worse off after the disaster  and another 18% felt themselves better off.  although it is commonly assumed on the basis of anecdotal evidence that disasters result in business failures and bankruptcies on a large scale  our research indicates that most businesses  even those that are especially hard-hit  do indeed recover   the authors concluded.  but disasters have a vast psychological impact  and markets are driven by psychological factors.  in particular  many analysts warn of panic spreading unchecked through the global financial system  as investors seek to cover themselves against the unforeseeable effects of unguessable events. in fact  again  the risks here are lower than they seem. even the costliest natural disaster is rendered minuscule by the global capital market - currently $30 trillion and rising. a series of recent shocks  the colorado centre has argued  have demonstrated that this seamless global contagion hardly ever happens: market tremors rarely translate into economic slumps  and economic woes rarely seriously undermine markets. the trillion-dollar debts of japan s banks  for example  have had no effect on stock markets further afield than tokyo. and the us stock market was on its way down long before 11 september  2001; it rose by 20% during the six months following the attacks.  it is not that the broking community is indifferent to disasters or feelings   one bombay trader said this week.  but the reaction would have been seen if business had been affected. business sense probably tends to overrule everything else.
rivals of the £400 apple... the mac mini is the cheapest apple computer ever. but though it is cheap for a mac how does it compare to pcs that cost about the same amount  dot.life tries to find out if you can you get more for your money if you stick with the beige box.      an extremely small computer that is designed to bring the macintosh to the masses.  apple offer a less powerful mac mini for £339 but the £399 models has a 1.4ghz power pc chip  80 gigabyte hard drive  combined cd burner/dvd player. it comes equipped with usb and firewire ports for peripheral connections  ethernet port for broadband  a port for standard video output and an audio/headphone jack.the machine comes with mac os x  the apple operating system  the software suite ilife  which includes itunes  iphoto  imovie  idvd and garageband.  a monitor  keyboard or mouse. there is also no built-in support for wireless technology or any speakers. the lack of a dvd burner is an omission in the age of backing-up important software. wireless and a dvd burner can be added at extra cost.  apple are targeting people who already have a main computer and want to upgrade - especially pc users who have used an apple ipod.  compact and stylish  the mac mini would not look out of place in any home. apple computers are famously user friendly and offer much better network security  which means fewer viruses. the package of software that comes with the machine is the best money can buy.  the mac mini is just a box. if you don t already have a monitor etc  adding them to the package sees the value for money begin to dwindle. macs don t offer the upgrade flexibility of a pc and the machine s specifications lack the horse power for tasks such as high-end video editing or games.   the mac mini puts the macintosh within the reach of everyone   an apple spokesman said.  it will bring more customers to the platform  especially pc users and owners.     an entry-level machine designed for basic home use.  a 2.6ghz intel celeron chip  40 gigabyte hard drive  256mb  combined cd burner/dvd player. it comes equipped with a 17 inch monitor  keyboard and mouse. the machine has 6 usb ports and an ethernet port for broadband connection. there s also a port for standard video output. the machine comes with windows xp home edition. it provides basic home tools such as a media player and word processor.  a dvd burner  or any wireless components built in. wireless and a dvd burner can be added at extra cost.  homes and small offices  including those looking to add a low cost second computer.  cost is the clear advantage. the dell provides enough power and software for basic gaming and internet surfing. it s easily upgradeable so a bigger hard drive  better sound and graphics cards can be added.  the dell is hardly stylish and the hard drive is on the small size for anyone wanting to store photos or a decent sized digital music collection.   this machine is for small businesses and for people who want a second computer for basic home use  perhaps in a kids bedroom   a spokesman for dell said.  i think we offer better value once you realise all the extras needed for the mac mini.     a desktop computer that pc pro magazine dubbed best performer in a group test of machines that cost only £399 (£469 including vat).  a good basic pc that  according to pc pro  has  superb upgrade potential . for your money you get a 1.8ghz amd sempron processor  512mb of ram  120gb hard drive  dvd writer  16-inch monitor  mouse  keyboard and windows xp2  much more than the basics. it cannot handle 3d graphics and has no firewire slots.  those on a limited budget who want a machine they can add to and improve as their cash allows.  it s cheap and has plenty of room to improve but that could end up making it expensive in the long run. it s a good basic workhorse.  it s not pretty and has a monitor rather than a flat-panel display. some of the upgrades offered by jal to the basic model are pricey. you might find that you want to chop and change quite quickly.  nick ross  deputy labs editor at pc pro  said the important point about buying a cheap and cheerful pc is the upgrade path. interest has switched from processor power to graphics and sound cards as that s what makes the difference in games.  even manufacturers are not going to be marketing machines as faster   he said   they ll emphasise the different features.     a computer built from bits you buy and put together yourself.  a surprisingly good pc sporting an amd athlon xp 2500 processor  512 megabytes ram  a graphics card with 128 ram on board plus tv out  a 40 gb hard drive  cd-writer and dvd player  windows xp home.  anything else. you re building it so you have to buy all the software you want to install and do your own trouble-shooting and tech support. building your own machine is easier than it used to be but you need to read specifications carefully to make sure all parts work together.  experienced and keen pc users. building your own pc  or upgrading the one you have  is a great way to improve your understanding of how it all works.  it s cheap  you can specify exactly what you want and you get the thrill of putting it together yourself. and a bigger thrill if everything works as it should.  once it s built you won t be able to do much with it until you start buying software for it. if it starts to go wrong it might take a lot of fixing. as gavin cox of the excellent buildyourown.org.uk website put it:  it will be tough to obtain/build a pc to ever be as compact and charming as the mac mini.    performance-wise  it s not  cutting edge  and is barely entry-level by today s market  but up against the mac mini  i believe it will hold its own and even pull a few more tricks   says gavin cox. the good news is that the machine is eminently expandable. by contrast  says mr cox  the mac mini is almost disposable.
berlin honours s korean director south korean film director im kwon-taek has received an honorary golden bear at the berlin film festival.  im  who has made more than 100 films in a 40-year career  was hailed for his  remarkable visual beauty  technical innovation  and intellectual depth . twenty of his films are screening in a special retrospective during the festival  which runs until 20 february. the veteran film-maker  68  won the best director prize at the cannes film festival in 2002 for chihwaseon.  although his films vary in style  they all bear his unmistakable stamp: they are forceful and charged cinematographically  as well as reticent  stylised and musical   organisers said in a statement. meanwhile  a film version of bizet s opera carmen - translated into the south african language xhosa - has received a warm reception at the festival. u-carmen ekhayelitsha (carmen in khayelitsha)  which is one of 21 films up for berlin s top prize  the golden bear  is british director mark dornford-may s first feature film.  it s the first time any opera has been translated into a black south african language. xhosa works brilliantly  it s such a musical language   said music director charles hazlewood.
cannabis hopes for drug firm a prescription cannabis drug made by uk biotech firm gw pharmaceuticals is set to be approved in canada.  the drug is used to treat the central nervous system and alleviate the symptoms of multiple sclerosis (ms). a few weeks ago  shares in gw pharma lost a third of their value after uk regulators said they wanted more evidence about the drug s benefits. but now canadian authorities have said the sativex drug will be considered for approval.  approximately 50 000 people in canada have been diagnosed with ms and 85 000 people are suffering from the condition in the uk. many patients already smoke cannabis to relieve their symptoms.  now  gw pharma s sativex mouth spray could be legally available to ms sufferers in canada within the next few months. this will be the first time a cannabis-based drug has been approved anywhere in the world  representing a landmark for gw pharma and for patients with ms. final approval in canada should now be little more than a formality  analysts said  and the company expects full approval for sativex early in 2005.  we are delighted to receive this qualifying notice from health canada and look forward to receiving regulatory approval for sativex in canada in the early part of 2005   said gw pharma executive chairman dr geoffrey guy.  the uk government granted gw pharma a licence to grow the cannabis plant for medical research purposes. satifex consists of a cannabis extract containing tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol  a cocktail that has also proved effective in treating patients with arthritis. thousands of plants are grown at a secret location somewhere in the english countryside. despite hopes of regulatory approval last year  a series of delays has put back sativex s launch in the uk. the latest news sent shares in gw pharma up 8.5p  or 8.1%  to 113.5p.
uganda bans vagina monologues uganda s authorities have banned the play the vagina monologues  due to open in the capital  kampala this weekend.  the ugandan media council said the performance would not be put on as it promoted and glorified acts such as lesbianism and homosexuality. it said the production could go ahead if the organisers  expunge all the offending parts . but the organisers of the play say it raises awareness of sexual abuse against women.  the play promotes illegal  unnatural sexual acts  homosexuality and prostitution  it should be and is hereby banned   the council s ruling said.  the show  which has been a controversial sell-out around the world  explores female sexuality and strength through individual women telling their stories through monologues. some parliamentarians and church leaders are also siding with the media council  uganda s new vision newspaper reports.  the play is obscene and pornographic although it was under the guise of women s liberation   mp kefa ssempgani told parliament.  but the work s author  us playwright eve ensler  says it is all about women s empowerment.  there is obviously some fear of the vagina and saying the word vagina   ms ensler told the bbc.  it s not a slang word or dirty word it s a biological  anatomical word.  she said the play is being produced and performed by ugandan women and it is not being forced on them. the four ugandan ngos organising the play intended to raise money to campaign to stop violence against women and to raise funds for the war-torn north of the country.  i m extremely outraged at the hypocrisy   the play s organiser in uganda  sarah mukasa  told the bbc s focus on africa programme.  i m amazed that this country uganda gives the impression that it is progressive and supports women s rights and the notions of free speech; yet when women want to share their stories the government uses the apparatus of state to shut us up.
mourinho defiant on chelsea form chelsea boss jose mourinho has insisted that sir alex ferguson and arsene wenger would swap places with him.  mourinho s side were knocked out of the fa cup by newcastle last sunday before seeing barcelona secure a 2-1 champions league first-leg lead in the nou camp. but he denied his club was suffering a dip in form which league rivals arsenal and manchester united could exploit.  they cannot speak to us about blips because they re not in a better position than us   mourinho said.  do they want to change positions with us  we are top of the league by nine points and in the carling cup final.  the only thing they can say they are in a better position than us in is the fa cup.  in the champions league all three teams can either go through or go out but the one team that is in the best position is still chelsea.   mourinho said it was important to keep his team s results in perspective.  don t try to put pressure on me because i am never under pressure   he warned.  we have lost one important game this week - at newcastle - and we re out of the fa cup but i don t think a defeat in a first-leg tie is a real defeat. we are just 2-1 down at half-time.  asked if his chelsea honeymoon was now over  mourinho replied:  i have had 20 years of honeymoons with my wife.  the day that this club is not happy with me is the day that i go.
bank payout to pinochet victims a us bank has said it will donate more than $8m to victims of former chilean military ruler augusto pinochet s regime under a madrid court settlement.  riggs bank will put money in a special fund to be managed by a madrid-based charity  the salvador allende foundation  which helps abused victims. the bank had been accused of illegally concealing gen pinochet s assets. more than 3 000 people were killed for political reasons under gen pinochet s regime  an official report says. last month in a us court  riggs bank pleaded guilty to failing to report suspicious activity relating to accounts held by gen pinochet and the government of equatorial guinea. on that occasion  it was ordered to pay a fine of $16m. gen pinochet himself has never been put on trial for human rights violations under his 1973-90 rule  despite several high-profile cases against him. he is now facing charges relating to the murder of one chilean and the disappearance of nine others. he is also being investigated for tax evasion  tax fraud and embezzlement of state funds.  the general s opponents rejoiced at the settlement  which was agreed in a court in the spanish capital  madrid. a lawyer for the victims  eduardo contreras  told reuters news agency:  this demonstrates that the horrors of the pinochet dictatorship are not a mystery to anyone and that the whole world knows his victims deserve reparations.  riggs spokesman mark hendrix said the settlement  details of which will be announced next week  was an opportunity to move on.  this enables the institution to put the matter behind us   he told reuters. the settlement follows a legal complaint filed against the bank by spanish judge baltasar garzon alleging that it had illegally concealed assets. the bank agreed to create a fund for the victims  but the charges were dropped.
campbell returns to election team ex-downing street media chief alastair campbell will return to the fold to strengthen labour s general election campaign  the party has confirmed.  mr campbell has consistently made public his keenness to play a part in the poll  expected in may. both culture secretary tessa jowell and deputy prime minister john prescott have welcomed his return.  he is a strong labour party member   mr prescott told bbc one s breakfast with frost programme.  mr campbell quit number 10 in august 2003 after being tony blair s right-hand man at the 1997 and 2001 elections. labour have refused to discuss his exact new position and have not said how it would affect his downing street replacement david hill.  of course alastair s going to be part of the election campaign and i think that all of us who will also be part of the election campaign are very pleased about that   ms jowell told sky news.  but she said his return would not put anybody else s  nose out of joint .  this is the daft thing about the way in which politics is written about   ms jowell added.  there s room for everybody. we serve the country better if we make room for all the talent.  a labour source told the sunday times mr campbell would  effectively front  the election media campaign but said he would be given no formal title.  labour strategists told the paper he would be  set loose  on conservative leader michael howard in attacking his party s economic record when it was in power.  they used pictures from the 1970s in the 1992 campaign to remind people of the winter of discontent - and now it s our turn   the source told the paper.  making michael howard leader gives us an unmissable opportunity to remind people what it was like to pay mortgage rates of 15% even if it was more than a decade ago.  mr campbell was at the centre of the government s row with bbc over andrew gilligan s story about the iraq weapons dossier. the hutton inquiry cleared him of  sexing up  the dossier in the run-up to the iraq war. since leaving downing street  he has toured the country with his one man show  an audience with alastair campbell and presented a number of interview programmes for channel 4.
uk pioneers digital film network the world s first digital cinema network will be established in the uk over the next 18 months.  the uk film council has awarded a contract worth £11.5m to arts alliance digital cinema (aadc)  who will set up the network of up to 250 screens. aadc will oversee the selection of cinemas across the uk which will use the digital equipment. high definition projectors and computer servers will be installed to show mainly british and specialist films. most cinemas currently have mechanical projectors but the new network will see up to 250 screens in up to 150 cinemas fitted with digital projectors capable of displaying high definition images. the new network will double the world s total of digital screens. cinemas will be given the film on a portable hard drive and they will then copy the content to a computer server.  each film is about 100 gigabytes and has been compressed from an original one terabyte-size file. fiona deans  associate director of aadc  said the compression was visually lossless so no picture degradation will occur.  the film will all be encrypted to prevent piracy and each cinema will have an individual key which will unlock the movie.  people will see the picture quality is a bit clearer with no scratches.  the picture will look exactly the same as when the print was first made - there is no degradation in quality over time.   the key benefit of the digital network will be an increase in the distribution and screening of british films  documentaries and foreign language films.   access to specialised film is currently restricted across the uk   said pete buckingham  head of distribution and exhibition at the uk film council.  although a genuine variety of films is available in central london and a few other metropolitan areas  the choice for many outside these areas remains limited  and the digital screen network will improve access for audiences across the uk   digital prints costs less than a traditional 35mm print - giving distributors more flexibility in how they screen films  said ms deans.  it can cost up to £1 500 to make a copy of a print for specialist films.  in the digital world you can make prints for considerably less than that.  distributors can then send out prints to more cinemas and prints can stay in cinemas for much longer.  the uk digital network will be the first to employ 2k projectors - which are capable of showing films at resolutions of 2048 * 1080 pixels. a separate competitive process to determine which cinemas will receive the digital screening technology will conclude in may. the sheer cost of traditional prints means that some cinemas need to show them twice a day in order to recoup costs.  some films need word of mouth and time to build momentum - they don t need to be shown twice a day   explained ms deans.  a cinema will often book a 35mm print in for two weeks - even if the film is a roaring success they cannot hold on to the print because it will have to go to another cinema.  with digital prints  every cinema will have its own copy.
henman to face saulnier test british number one tim henman will face france s cyril saulnier in the first round of next week s australian open.  greg rusedski  the british number two  is in the same quarter of the draw and could face andy roddick in the second round if he beats swede jonas bjorkman. local favourite lleyton hewitt will meet france s arnaud clement  while defending champion and world number one roger federer faces fabrice santoro. women s top seed lindsay davenport drew spanish veteran conchita martinez.  henman came from two sets down to defeat saulnier in the first round of the french open last year  so he knows he faces a tough test in melbourne. the seventh seed  who has never gone beyond the quarter-finals in the year s first major and is lined up to meet roddick in the last eight  is looking forward to the match.  he s tough player on any surface  he s got a lot of ability   he said.  we had a really tight one in paris that went my way so i m going to need to play well from the outset because he s a dangerous competitor.  switzerland s federer  seeded one  is the hot favourite having won three of the four grand slam titles in 2004. he has beaten santoro in five of their seven previous encounters  but is taking nothing for granted.  it s a tricky match   federer said.  i played him at the us open and won quite comfortably then. but you never know  if the rhythm is a bit off  he can keep you guessing and make it difficult.  the most important thing  though  is to get used to playing five-set matches and winning them.  the 23-year-old could meet four-time champion andre agassi in the quarter-finals before meeting russian marat safin  the player he beat in last year s final.  eighth-seeded american agassi is set to play a qualifier in round one if he can shake off a hip injury which ruled him out of the kooyong classic. second seed andy roddick will open his campaign against irakli labadze of georgia. the american could meet rusedski in the second round  seventh seed henman in the quarter-finals and hewitt in the last four. hewitt is hoping to become the first australian man to win the event since mark edmondson in 1976. the 23-year-old has never been beyond round four in eight attempts at melbourne park but has at least secured the opposite half of the draw to federer  who beat him in the australian open  wimbledon and us open last year. safin  seeded four  opens his campaign against a qualifier with 16th seed tommy haas  the player he beat in the semi-finals in 2002  a possible fourth-round opponent.  in the women s draw  davenport could encounter eighth-seeded venus williams in the quarter-finals and third-ranked anastasia myskina  the french open champion  in the semi-finals. bronchitis ruled davenport  the 2000 australian open champion  out of her sydney quarter-final on thursday. venus williams  who lost to younger sister serena in the melbourne final two years ago  opens against eleni daniilidou of greece. serena williams  who won her fourth consecutive grand slam at the 2003 australian open  was drawn in the bottom quarter with second seed amelie mauresmo  a runner-up in 1999. serena will open against another frenchwoman camille pin  while mauresmo plays australia s samantha stosur. wimbledon champion maria sharapova  seeded fourth  drew a qualifier in the first round but could meet fellow russian svetlana kuznetsova  the us open winner  in the last eight  1 roger federer (switzerland)  2 andy roddick (us)  3 lleyton hewitt (australia)  4 marat safin (russia)  5 carlos moya (spain)  6 guillermo coria (argentina)  7 tim henman (britain)  8 andre agassi (us)  9 david nalbandian (argentina)  10 gaston gaudio (argentina)  11 joachim johansson (sweden)  12 guillermo canas (argentina)  13 tommy robredo (spain)  14 sebastien grosjean (france)  15 mikhail youzhny (russia)  16 tommy haas (germany)  17 andrei pavel (romania)  18 nicolas massu (chile)  19 vincent spadea (us)  20 dominik hrbaty (slovakia)  21 nicolas kiefer (germany)  22 ivan ljubicic (croatia)  23 fernando gonzalez (chile)  24 feliciano lopez (spain)  25 juan ignacio chela (argentina)  26 nikolay davydenko (russia)  27 paradorn srichaphan (thailand)  28 mario ancic (croatia)  29 taylor dent (us)  30 thomas johansson (sweden)  31 juan carlos ferrero (spain)  32 jurgen melzer (austria)  1 lindsay davenport (us)  2 amelie mauresmo (france)  3 anastasia myskina (russia)  4 maria sharapova (russia)  5 svetlana kuznetsova (russia)  6 elena dementieva (russia)  7 serena williams (us)  8 venus williams (us)  9 vera zvonareva (russia)  10 alicia molik (australia)  11 nadia petrova (russia)  12 patty schnyder (switzerland)  13 karolina sprem (croatia)  14 francesca schiavone (italy)  15 silvia farina elia (italy)  16 ai sugiyama (japan)  17 fabiola zuluaga (colombia)  18 elena likhovtseva (russia)  19 nathalie dechy (france)  20 tatiana golovin (france)  21 amy frazier (us)  22 magdalena maleeva (bulgaria)  23 jelena jankovic (serbia and montenegro)  24 mary pierce (france)  25 lisa raymond (us)  26 daniela hantuchova (slovakia)  27 anna smashnova (israel)  28 shinobu asagoe (japan)  29 gisela dulko (argentina)  30 flavia pennetta (italy)  31 jelena kostanic (croatia)  32 iveta benesova (czech republic)
brazil approves bankruptcy reform a major reform of brazil s bankruptcy laws has been approved by the country s congress  in a move which it is hoped will cut the cost of borrowing.  the bill  proposed in 1993  has finally been approved by the leadership of president luiz inacio lula da silva. the old law  dating from 1945  gave priority first to workers  second to tax revenue and finally to creditors. the new legislation changes this  giving priority to creditors and limiting payments to workers. the new regulations will limit payments to workers to 150 times the minimum monthly salary  which is currently $94. the law also makes it more difficult for a company to declare bankruptcy. however  when a firm is declared bankrupt it will gain protection from creditors for 180 days while a recovery plan is worked out.  the proposals were opposed in the past by leftist parties  including mr lula s worker party. they considered that they undermined workers  rights. but president lula became a defender of the reforms  arguing that the country s bank lending margins were among the highest in the world and were damaging the economy. according to andreas adriano of latin trade magazine  the new bankruptcy law will help in reducing the spread - difference between the interest rates of the banks and federal bonds. nevertheless  mr adriano said to reduce the basic interest rate the central bank needs to change its policy  focusing not only on inflation but also on economic growth.
giggs handed wales leading role ryan giggs will captain wales as he wins his 50th cap in wednesday s friendly against hungary in cardiff.  john toshack  in his first game as coach after succeeding mark hughes  admits he is surprised that giggs has only just reached the landmark.  with the games he s played for united  proportionately it doesn t seem that many for wales   toshack said.  but he s one of the greatest of all welsh internationals and on his 50th cap it s appropriate he s captain.  giggs admits he had briefly considered retirement from the international game  but is now targetting playing for wales in the 2008 european championships. the manchester united wing revealed how club manager sir alex ferguson talked him into extending his wales career.  i briefly discussed my international future with sir alex  but he urged me to carry on   giggs said.  he feels  like myself  that i have no weight problems and keep myself fit  so in three or four years  time i will be able to play in the european finals if we get there.  the manager has always wanted me to play for my club and country and he was keen for me to continue because i am fit enough.   giggs admits he was wavering and considering joining the likes of former wales skipper gary speed and united team-mate paul scholes in committing the remaining years of his career to club football. but giggs is now focussed on making the toshack era even more successful than the time hughes spent at the helm. the manchester united winger won his first cap as a 17-year-old in 1991  an away loss to germany  and now faces his landmark appearance at the age of 31. with giggs leading wales out against hungary  there is every chance that he will become the permanent successor to speed. however  toshack refused to reveal whether he sees giggs as a long-term option.  for this particular game i think it is appropriate that ryan giggs will be captain  it s his 50th cap and he s known for some time about that   toshack said. on wednesday night toshack takes charge of his first match since replacing hughes  and giggs said:  it s my 50th cap and i am looking forward to it  and i hope to play a lot more times from here on in.  it s important to be here  all the players feel the same. it s a new start and all the top players certainly see it as important.  i see myself leading by example  it is something i have taken on for wales as well as united these past few seasons.  the way john is looking at things  he is aiming to build his side around the experienced lads right up to the next tournament  the euro 2006 event.  i have told john i will be around for the next european tournament  by then i will be 35 so hopefully i will still be okay.  a lot can happen  but i m hoping to be around.  giggs  own personal future at old trafford is still up in the air as he has yet to reach agreement on a new contract  with manchester united offering one extra year and giggs seeking two.  i have put the contract thing to the back of my mind at the moment   said giggs.  it is an important period for the club and i am just concentrated on that.  i ve heard the suggestions  hopefully there is a two-year deal about to be offered because that is what i am looking for  to get it sorted out.  i m enjoying my football  the way united have been playing and my own form  you have to enjoy it.  we have massive games coming up: manchester city this week  then the everton cup tie  followed by ac milan in the champions league  and my first wales game under john toshack  so it s an important time.
row threatens hendrix museum plan proposals to open a museum dedicated to jimi hendrix are flailing because of a row over the home of his late father.  the run-down house in seattle has already been moved wholesale once and local authorities are now demanding it be moved to another site. hendrix supporters hoped to turn the home into a museum for the guitarist.  the mayor is going to go down as the mayor who destroyed jimi hendrix s house   said ray rae marshall of the james marshall hendrix foundation. the foundation moved the building  in which al hendrix lived between 1953 and 1956  when the land it was built on was to be developed for housing in 2002. now the city of seattle wants its new plot to be used for development  giving a deadline of 22 february for the home to be moved. mr goldman said the authority had promised the house could remain on its new site and be turned into a memorial and community centre. seattle officials said no such deal had been offered.   we never said   you can own this property    said john franklin  chief of its operations department.  from our perspective  it was a temporary situation. we have not threatened to demolish the house. we ve simply asked that they have to move it.  now mr goldman is calling for the authority to pay to move the building to seattle s central district  where hendrix grew up. janie hendrix  the guitarist s stepsister  said the family were still hoping the guitarist would be honoured by having a road named after him.  that s something my father really wanted to see   she said.  it would be nice if we didn t have to fight for everything to get it.  hendrix was widely considered one of the most important guitarists of his time. he died of drug overdose in 1970 at the age of 27.
broadband in the uk growing fast high-speed net connections in the uk are proving more popular than ever.  bt reports that more people signed up for broadband in the last three months than in any other quarter. the 600 000 connections take the total number of people in the uk signing up for broadband from bt to almost 3.3 million. nationally more than 5 million browse the net via broadband. britain now has among the highest number of broadband connections throughout the whole of europe.  according to figures gathered by industry watchdog  ofcom  the growth means that the uk has now surpassed germany in terms of broadband users per 100 people. the uk total of 5.3 million translates into 7.5 connections per 100 people  compared to 6.7 in germany and 15.8 in the netherlands. the numbers of people signing up to broadband include those that get their service direct from bt or via the many companies that re-sell bt lines under their own name. part of the surge in people signing up was due to bt stretching the reach of adsl - the uk s most widely used way of getting broadband - beyond 6km.  asymmetric digital subscriber line technology lets ordinary copper phone lines support high data speeds. the standard speed is 512kbps  though faster connections are available.  this breakthrough led to a dramatic increase in orders as we were suddenly able to satisfy the pent-up demand that existed in many areas   said paul reynolds  chief executive of bt wholesale which provides phone lines that other firms re-sell. bt retail  which sells net services under its own name  also had a good quarter and provided about 30% of the new broadband customers. this was a slight increase on the previous three months. despite the good news about growth in broadband  figures from telecommunications regulator ofcom show that bt faces increasing competition  and dwindling influence  in other sectors. local loop unbundling  (llu)  in which bt rivals install their hardware in exchanges and take over the line to a customer s home or office  is growing steadily. cable & wireless and ntl have announced that they are investing millions to start offering llu services. by the end of september more than 4.2 million phone lines were using so-called carrier pre-section (cps) services  such as talktalk and one.tel  which route phone calls across non-bt networks from a local exchange. there are now more than 300 different firms offering cps services and the percentage of people using bt lines for voice calls has shrunk to 55.4%.
egypt to sell off state-owned bank the egyptian government is reportedly planning to privatise one of the country s big public banks.  an investment ministry official has told the reuters news agency that the bank of alexandria will be sold sometime in 2005. the move is seen as evidence of a new commitment by the government to reduce the size of public sector. the official said the government has not yet decided whether the sale will take the form of a public flotation.  the most important thing to decide now is the method - whether by selling shares to the public or to a strategic investor from abroad   he said.  analysts say the public-sector banks have suited the government s monetary  credit and exchange policies. nevertheless  the egyptian government has spoken for years about privatising one of the big four state banks - banque misr  national bank of egypt  banque du caire and bank of alexandria. it had been expected one of the smallest of the four big public banks - bank of alexandria or banque du caire - would be sold first. the announcement reinforces the hopes of investors and international financial bodies for a revival of egypt s privatisation programme. about 190 state-run companies and facilities were sold off from the early 1990s to 1997. the appointment of mahmoud mohieldin  a reform-minded technocrat  to the new post of investment minister in july was taken as a sign that more sell-offs were on the way. both the imf and world bank have urged egypt to remove obstacles to the development of the private sector which they say has a vital role to play in reducing poverty by expanding the economy.
benitez joy as reds take control liverpool boss rafael benitez was satisfied after his team s 3-1 win over bayer leverkusen despite conceding a goal in the last minute.   before the game if you had said the score will be 3-1 i would have happily accepted that   said benitez.  but you must realise that you have to concentrate right to the very last seconds of a game at this level.  i have confidence that we can complete the task in germany. i am always confident and we must be positive.   benitez defended goalkeeper jerzy dudek  whose failure to hold on to dimitar berbatov s weak drive allowed franca to score with the last kick of the game - and give the german team a lifeline for the second leg.  for me it was not jerzy dudek s fault   added benitez.  he had played a very good game - and had we scored our other chances  nobody would be talking about about their goal. it would not have mattered.  if we had scored our other chances it would not have been worth remembering that last goal.  in my opinion jerzy played well  made two very fine saves - and i am happy with him.  if we lose 2-0 we are out but i think we can score in germany - certainly one  and that will make all the difference.  and the liverpool boss is looking forward to having skipper steven gerrard  who was suspended for the anfield leg  back for the return in germany.   steven gerrard is a key player for us   said benitez.  when he is on the pitch he makes everyone else play better - and the opposition pay special attention to him - which gives space for others.  steven is one of the best players in the world  but i need a team that is not about just one player. there must be 11 players on the pitch all doing well.
finding new homes for old phones re-using old mobile phones is not just good for the environment  it has social benefits too.  research has found that in some developing nations old mobile phones can help close the digital divide. the forum for the future research found that the low cost of these recycled handsets means they can have a very useful second life in poorer nations. but the forum found that more needed to be done to collect old phones rather than let them rot in landfill sites.  the report reveals that approximately 15 million mobile phones go out of use every year in the uk. of the 15 million that are swapped for newer models each year  only 25% get returned to mobile phone firms for recycling or re-use. the slowly growing mass of unrecycled  discarded phones has now reached 90 million handsets  the equivalent of 9 000 tonnes of waste  estimates james goodman  report author and a senior adviser at the forum for the future.  it s quite common for people to have two or three phones just lying around   said mr goodman.  many of these older phones could end up in landfill sites leaking the potentially toxic materials they are made of into the wider world  said mr goodman. far better  he said  to hand the phone back to an operator who can send it overseas where it can enjoy a second lease of life.  we ve heard the environmental argument for handing a phone back   said mr goodman   but there s a strong social argument too.  older mobile phones are proving particularly useful in poorer nations where people want to use a mobile and keep in touch with friends and family but do not have the income to buy the most up to date model. the forum for the future report took an in-depth look at romania where reconditioned mobile phones were proving very popular.  it s an interesting country because it has a really crap fixed line network   said mr goodman   and there s a real desire for people to get mobile phones.  but the relatively low wages in romania  which is one of the poorest countries in europe  mean few people can afford a shiny new phone.  the affordability of the handsets is a real barrier to getting one   he said. reconditioned handsets have boosted take-up of mobiles as the report revealed that almost one-third of romanian pre-pay mobile phone users were using reconditioned handsets. the re-used handsets tend to be about one-third of the price of a new handset. georgeta minciu  a romanian part-time cleaner  said:  normally a mobile phone would not be possible on my wages. i am a single parent - keeping in touch with my daughter is important to me.   this is the only way i can afford to have a phone   she said. mr goodman said phone operators and consumers needed to do more to ensure that more of britain s mobile mountain made it overseas. but  he added  those keen to use a mobile will not accept any old handset.  if its more than a few years old people are not going to want it   he said.
halo fans  hope for sequel xbox video game halo 2 has been released in the us on 9 november  with a uk release two days later. why is the game among the most anticipated of all time   halo is considered by many video game pundits to be one of the finest examples of interactive entertainment ever produced and more than 1.5 million people worldwide have pre-ordered the sequel. a science fiction epic  halo centred the action on a human cyborg  controlled by the player  who had to save his crew from an alien horde after a crash landing on a strange and exotic world contained on the interior surface of a giant ring in space. remembrance of things past it was not - but as a slice of schlock science fiction inspired by works such as larry niven s ringworld and the film starship troopers  it fit the bill perfectly. halo stood out from a crowd of similar titles - it was graphically impressive  had tremendous audio  using dolby digital  a decent storyline  instant playability and impressive physics.  but what marked halo as a classic were the thousands of details which brought a feeling of polish and the enormously-high production values not usually associated with video gaming.  produced by bungie software  renowned for their innovation in gaming  it caused a stir among the gaming fraternity when the developer was bought by microsoft and became an xbox exclusive. claude errera  editor of fansite halo.bungie.org  said:  bungie got everything right. they were really careful to make sure everything worked the way it was supposed to.  nothing distracts you when you were playing. there was nothing in halo that had not been done before but everything in there was as good as it could be.  he added:  graphically it was superior to everything else out there.   it also had a depth to it that made it stand out.  halo was unusually immersive  sucking the player into the action and blurring the interface between screen and controller. it also capitalised on the growing popularity of lan gaming in the pc world - for the first time it became easy to link multiple game consoles together  allowing up to 16 players to battle against each other at the same time.  the game instantly cultivated an online following  which continues today with a score of halo fan websites following every aspect of the sequel  halo 2. errera spends three to fours hours a day of his own time maintaining the hugely popular website  which attracts 600 000 page views a day from halo fans eager for the latest news.  when the xbox launched on november 15 2001 in the us  halo was one of the launch titles and had an immediate impact on critics and consumers.  halo is the most important launch game for any console ever   wrote the influential edge magazine in its review  giving it a rare 10 out of 10 mark. the game had its critics and while it is not a one-off original as a game  it brought many original touches and flourishes to the genre which have defined all other first person shooters since.  the first time i played it i just stood there watching the spent shells fall out of my gun   said errera  remarking on the level of detail in the game.  the game also inspired thousands of people to write their own fiction based on the storyline and produce downloadable video clips of the many weird and wonderful things that can be done in the game.  it blew me away the first time someone managed to climb to the top of halo   said errera  referring to a fan who had created a video of master chief scaling the landscape of the graphical world. video clips of the more outrageous stunts that are possible thanks to the game s amazing physics engine are incredibly popular and some have attained a cult following. speculation about the sequel has seen every titbit analysed and poured over with all the intent of a forensic scientist examining a body. when early screenshots of the game were released some people wrote essay-length articles highlighting everything from the texture of graphics to clues about the story line. errera said expectations of the sequel among fans were sky high.  it does not feel like a game release any more. somebody told me this was the biggest single release of any product in microsoft s history.  we re all just hoping that bungie has got it right again.   halo 2 is out on 9 november in the us and 11 november in the uk
chris evans back on the market broadcaster chris evans has begun selling thousands of his possessions from a stall in camden market  london.  evans perched on a stool as shoppers wandered around the open-fronted shop packed with his furniture. among the items from his homes in los angeles and london were countless sofas  chairs  pictures  beds and memorabilia from his past tv shows. asked the reason for the sale  evans said:  i just want to get rid of it all  it s just a headache.  he added:  it feels good to be selling this stuff  it s a weight off my mind.  look at it all  there s so much clutter. i ve enjoyed every bit of furniture and every poster but it s not important anymore.  the normally gregarious evans cut a peculiarly unshowbusiness-like figure as he sipped coffee and smoked cigarettes  wrapped in a big coat and scarf in front of his aladdin s cave.  however  the ostentation of some of the items on sale painted a picture of the eccentricity that endeared him to the british public in shows such as channel 4 s gameshow don t forget your toothbrush. the most striking thing about many of the pieces was their sheer size. sofas looked like they could seat a small party and a bed seemed big enough for four. the elaborate nature of the pieces  many custom-made  had to be admired  particularly a huge red and gold upholstered  throne  and a stripy deckchair from the queen mary liner.  to help people in their browsing  evans had given the pieces labels with not only the price but a helpful  often comic  aside.  isn t it great  was the comment on the £1 950 throne and  bob dylan s old sofa - honest  was written on a dark wood couch priced £4 250.  the prices were steep by a lot of people s standards but evans said it was not deterring shoppers.  i ve sold quite a lot already. everything here is on sale for less than i bought it for but it s not really about the money. it s about getting rid of it all. we ve all been bartering  that s what it s all about.  he added that he was not going to reveal what he was going to do with the money he was making. vintage tv and film posters also lined the walls  including a rare portrait of raquel welch and an original advertising print from the benny hill show. and  almost hidden at the back of the lock-up  were the two giant toothbrushes from his former channel 4 show  although these were not for sale.  despite the sheer curiosity value of the sale  there was a healthy trickle of interest from the public rather than the perhaps expected crowds. some wandered in just to browse  as they would any of the other stalls  not knowing that it belonged to evans.  paul burgess said:  i didn t realise. i thought it was just a load of junk. i should go back and have a better look.  but local resident francesca detakats came specially to the stall and left happy with her purchase of an original 1960s photograph of the who by david wedgburg. ms detakats said she was a collector and did not mind paying £350 for the print.  if you like something  you don t really count it like that   she said.  martin hellewell  who had also made a point of visiting evans  shop  said he thought it was a great idea.  why not  if you ve got stuff to get rid of it s a good place to do it   said mr hellewell. evans has taken out the stall with business partner pete winterbottom. they plan to open every day if possible  although evans did not know how often he would be there.  we ll stay definitely until christmas and then maybe a week after that   said evans.
warning over us pensions deficit taxpayers may have to bail out the us agency that protects workers  pension funds  leading economists have warned.  with the pension benefit guaranty corporation (pbgc) some £23bn (£12m) in deficit  the financial economists roundtable (fer) wants congress to act. instead of taxpayers having to pick up the bill  the fer wants congressmen to change the pbgc s funding rules. the fer says firms should not have been allowed to reduce the insurance premiums they pay into the pbgc fund. the fer blames this on a 2004 law  in a statement signed by several members  who include nobel economics laureate william sharpe. it said it was  dismayed  at the situation and wants congress to overturn the legislation.  cash-strapped us companies  including those in the airline  car-making and steel industries  had argued in favour of the 2004 rule change  claiming that funding the insurance premiums adequately would force them to have to cut jobs.  with a little firmer hand on the pensions issues in the us  i think that congress could avoid having to turn to the taxpayer and instead turn the obligations back onto the companies that deserve to pay them   said professor dennis logue  dean of price college of business at the university of oklahoma. the pbgc was founded in 1974 to protect workers  retirement rights. its most recent action came last week when it took control of the pilots  pension scheme at united airlines. with united battling bankruptcy  the carrier had wanted to use the money set aside for pensions to finance running costs. the company has an estimated $2.9bn hole in its pilots  pension scheme  which the pbgc will now guarantee.
virus poses as christmas e-mail security firms are warning about a windows virus disguising itself as an electronic christmas card.  the zafi.d virus translates the christmas greeting on its subject line into the language of the person receiving infected e-mail. anti-virus firms speculate that this multilingual ability is helping the malicious program spread widely online. anti-virus firm sophos said that 10% of the e-mail currently on the net was infected with the zafi virus.  like many other windows viruses  zafi-d plunders microsoft outlook for e-mail addresses and then uses mail-sending software to despatch itself across the web to new victims. to be infected users must open up the attachment travelling with the message which bears the code for the malicious bug. the attachment on the e-mail poses as an electronic christmas card but anyone opening it will simply get a crude image of two smiley faces.  the virus  subject line says  merry christmas  and translates this into one of 15 languages depending of the final suffix of the e-mail address the infected message has been sent to. the message in the body of the e-mail reads:  happy holidays  and this too is translated. on infected machines the virus tries to disable anti-virus and firewall software and opens up a backdoor on the pc to hand over control to the writer of the virus. the virus is thought to have spread most widely in south america  italy  spain  bulgaria and hungary. the original zafi virus appeared in april this year.  we have seen these hoaxes for several christmases already  and personally i prefer traditional pen and paper cards  and we recommend this to all our clients too   said mikko hypponen  who heads f-secure s anti-virus team.
sideways dominates spirit awards the comedy sideways has dominated this year s independent spirit awards  winning all six of the awards for which it was nominated.  it was named best film while alexander payne won best director and best screenplay  along with writing partner jim taylor. it also won acting awards for stars paul giamatti  thomas haden church and virginia madsen. sideways is tipped to do well at sunday s oscars  with five nominations.  the awards  now in their 20th year  are given to films made outside the traditional studio system  and are traditionally held the day before the oscars. other winners included catalina sandino moreno  who took best actress for her role as a drug smuggler in the colombian drama maria full of grace. moreno is also nominated for best actress at the oscars. the best first screenplay award went to joshua marston for maria full of grace. scrubs star zach braff won the award for best first feature for garden state  which he wrote  directed and starred in. oscar-nominated euthanasia film the sea inside from spain won best foreign film  while metallica: some kind of monster was awarded best documentary. actor rodrigo de la serna took the best debut performance prize for the motorcycle diaries. the awards are voted for by the 9 000 members of the independent feature project/los angeles  which includes actors  directors  writers and other industry professionals. last year s big winner  lost in translation  went on to win the oscar for best original screenplay  for writer-director sofia coppola.
astrazeneca hit by drug failure shares in anglo-swedish drug have closed down 8% in uk trade after the failure of its iressa drug in a major clinical trial.  the lung cancer drug did not significantly prolong survival in patients with the disease. this setback for the group follows the rejection by the us in october of its anti-coagulant pill exanta. meanwhile  another of its major money spinners - cholesterol drug crestor - is facing mounting safety concerns.  this would be two of the three blockbuster drugs that were meant to power the company forward failing... and we ve got risks on crestor   said nick turner  analyst at brokers jefferies.  astrazeneca had hoped to pitch its iressa drug against rival medicine tarceva. but iressa proved no better than a placebo in extending lives in the trial involving 1 692 patients. tarceva - made by osi pharmaceuticals  genentech and roche - has already proved to be successful in helping prolong the life of lung cancer patients. aztrazeneca has now appointed a new executive director to the board. john patterson will be in charge of drug development. the company said mr patterson would make  substantial changes to the clinical organisation and its processes .  i am determined to improve our development and regulatory performance  restore confidence in the company and value to shareholders   said chief executive tom mckillop.
chelsea hold arsenal a gripping game between arsenal and chelsea ended with the honours finishing even at highbury.  thierry henry produced a sublime strike to put arsenal ahead but john terry levelled with a powerful header. henry s quickly-taken free-kick put arsenal back in front but eidur gudjohnsen equalised with a header from william gallas  knockback. henry missed a golden chance when he blazed a shot high late on and arsenal also had a penalty appeal rejected. henry s opener had given arsenal the perfect start and set up an enthralling affair. the french striker headed a long cesc faregas ball back to jose antonio reyes from the edge of the chelsea area and immediately saw it headed back into his path from the spaniard. and  with his back to goal  henry finished with aplomb when he took one touch  turned and struck an angled strike past the despairing dive of keeper petr cech. henry epitomised a determination about the arsenal side but chelsea appeared unruffled and equalised after 16 minutes.  gunners keeper manuel almunia  who got the nod ahead of jens lehmann  did well to save a well-struck frank lampard shot. but he could not keep out terry s powered header from the resultant corner as arsenal s weakness at set-pieces was again exposed. almost immediately  henry went close and chelsea gathered the loose ball before going straight up the other end where gudjohnsen fluffed an effort. gudjohnsen did not make the same error minutes later when he struck a sweet shot only for almunia to be equal to the task and save. the homes side regained the lead in controversial fashion when robert pires won a dubious free-kick. and  given the option to take the 25-yard set-piece quickly  henry curled in a shot with cech still organising his wall.  this time arsenal did not allow chelsea to level so soon as they went into the break ahead. chelsea brought striker didier drogba on to partner gudjohnsen up front after the interval and the move reaped immediate reward. lampard swung in a cross which gallas knocked back across goal and a deft header from gudjohnsen levelled matters again. chelsea s main threat was coming from crosses and lampard missed a great opportunity as he headed wide when left unmarked at the far post. the second half failed to live up to the thrilling pace of the opening period but there were flashes of brilliance. one of them came from the enigmatic robben when he jinked his way through two arsenal defenders only to see his poked shot saved by almunia.  arsenal ended the match the stronger and worked a excellent chance for henry who put a left-foot shot high from eight yards. subtitute robin van persie could also have nicked a win for the highbury outfit but frustratingly sidefooted just wide. matthieu flamini had a late penal appeal waved away before the final whistle which maintained chelsea five-point premiership lead over arsenal.  almunia  lauren  toure  campbell  cole  pires  flamini  fabregas  reyes (clichy 82)  bergkamp (van persie 82)  henry. subs not used: senderos  hoyte  lehmann.  cole.  henry 2  29.  cech  paulo ferreira  ricardo carvalho (drogba 45)  terry  gallas  duff  tiago (bridge 45)  makelele  lampard  robben  gudjohnsen (parker 77). subs not used: kezman  cudicini.  robben  drogba  lampard.  terry 17  gudjohnsen 46.  38 153  g poll (hertfordshire).
mixed reaction to man utd offer shares in manchester united were up over 5% by noon on monday following a new offer from malcolm glazer.  the board of man utd is expected to meet early this week to discuss the latest proposal from the us tycoon that values the club at £800m ($1.5bn). manchester united revealed on sunday that it had received a detailed proposal from mr glazer. a senior source at the club told the bbc:  this time it s different . the board is obliged to consider this deal. but the man utd supporters club urged the club to reject the new deal. manchester united past and present footballers eric cantona and ole gunnar solskjaer  and club manager sir alex ferguson  have lent their backing to the supporters  group  shareholders united. they have all spoken out against the bid.  a spokesman for the supporters club said:  i can t see any difference (compared to mr glazer s previous proposals) other than £200m less debt.  he isn t bringing any money into the club; he ll use our money to buy it.   mr glazer s latest move is being led by mr glazer s two sons  avi and joel  according to the financial times. a proposal was received by david gill  united s chief executive  at the end of last week  pitched at about 300p a share. david cummings  head of uk equities for standard life investments  said he believed a  well funded  300p a share bid would be enough for mr glazer to take control of the club.  i do not think there is anything that manchester united fans can do about it   he told the bbc.  they can complain about it but it is curtains for them. they may not want him but they are going to get him.  the us tycoon  who has been wooing the club for the last 12 months  has approached the united board with  detailed proposals   it has confirmed.  mr glazer  who owns the tampa bay buccaneers team  hopes this will lead to a formal bid being accepted. he is believed to have increased the amount of equity in the new proposal  though it is not clear by how much. for his proposal to succeed  he needs the support of united s largest shareholders  the irish horseracing tycoons jp mcmanus and john magnier. they own 29% of united through their cubic expression investment vehicle. mr glazer and his family hold a stake of 28.1%. but it is not yet known whether mr mcmanus and mr magnier would support a glazer bid. nm rothschild  the investment bank  is advising mr glazer  according to the financial times. his previous adviser  jpmorgan  quit last year when mr glazer went ahead and voted against the appointment of three united directors to the board  against its advice. but the ft said it thought jp morgan may still have had some role in financing mr glazer s latest financial proposal.
isinbayeva claims new world best pole vaulter yelena isinbayeva broke her own indoor world record by clearing 4.89 metres in lievin on saturday.  it was the russian s 12th world record of her career and came just a few days after she cleared 4.88m at the norwich union grand prix in birmingham. the olympic champion went on to attempt 5.05m at the meeting on france but failed to clear that height. in the men s 60m  former olympic 100m champion maurice greene could only finish second to leonard scott. it was greene s second consecutive defeat at the hands of his fellow american  who also won in birmingham last week.  i ran my race perfectly   said scott  who won in 6.46secs  his best time indoors.  i am happy even if i know that maurice is a long way from being at his peak at the start of the season.
freeze on anti-spam campaign a campaign by lycos europe to target spam-related websites appears to have been put on hold.  earlier this week the company released a screensaver that bombarded the sites with data to try to bump up the running costs of the websites. but the site hosting the screensaver now displays a pink graphic and the words  stay tuned . no one at lycos was available for comment on latest developments in its controversial anti-spam campaign.  lycos europe s  make love not spam  campaign was intended as a way for users to fight back against the mountain of junk mail flooding inboxes. people were encouraged to download the screensaver which  when their pc was idle  would then send lots of data to sites that peddle the goods and services mentioned in spam messages. lycos said the idea was to get the spam sites running at 95% capacity and generate big bandwidth bills for the spammers behind the sites. but the plan has proved controversial.  monitoring firm netcraft analysed response times for some of the sites targeted by the screensaver and found that a number were completely knocked offline.  the downing of the sites could dent lycos claims that what it is doing does not amount to a distributed denial of service attack. in such attacks thousands of computers bombard sites with data in an attempt to overwhelm them. laws in many countries do not explicitly outlaw such attacks but many nations are re-drafting computer use laws to make them specific offences. lycos europe now appears to have put the plan on hold. the site hosting the screensaver currently shows a holding page  with the words   stay tuned . the numerical internet address of the site has also changed. this is likely to be in response to spammers who have reportedly redirected traffic from their sites back to the lycos screensaver site. the campaign has come under fire from some corners of the web. many discussion groups have said that it set a dangerous precedent and could incite vigilantism.  attacking a spammer s website is like poking a grizzly bear sleeping in your back garden with a pointy stick   said graham cluley  senior technology consultant for sophos.  not only is this screensaver similar in its approach to a potentially illegal distributed denial of service attack  but it also is in danger of turning innocent computer users into vigilantes  who may not be prepared for whatever retaliation the spammers care to dream up.
global blogger action day called the global web blog community is being called into action to lend support to two imprisoned iranian bloggers.  the month-old committee to protect bloggers  is asking those with blogs to dedicate their sites on 22 february to the  free mojtaba and arash day . arash sigarchi and mojtaba saminejad are both in prison in iran. blogs are free sites through which people publish thoughts and opinions. iranian authorities have been clamping down on prominent sites for some time.  i hope this day will focus people   curt hopkins  director of the committee  told the bbc news website.  the group has a list of actions which it says bloggers can take  including writing to local iranian embassies. the committee has deemed tuesday  free mojtaba and arash day  as part of its first campaign. it is calling on the blogsphere - the name for the worldwide community of bloggers - to do what it can to help raise awareness of the plight of mojtaba and arash as well as other  cyber-dissidents .  if you have a blog  the least you could do is put nothing on that blog except  free mojtaba and arash day    said mr hopkins.  that would mean you could see that phrase 7.1 million times. that alone will shine some light on the situation.  if you don t have one  find one dedicated to that - it takes about 30 seconds.  technorati  a blog search engine  tracks about six million blogs and says that more than 12 000 are added daily. a blog is created every 5.8 seconds  according to a us research think-tank.  the committee to protect bloggers was started by us blogger curt hopkins and counts fired flight attendant blogger ellen simonetti as a deputy director. she has since started the international bloggers  bill of rights  a global petition to protect bloggers at work. although not the only website committed to human rights issues by any means  it aims to be the hub or organisation  information and support for bloggers in particular and their rights to freedom of speech.  the committee  although only a month old  aims to be the focal point for blogger action on similar issues in the future  and will operate as a non-for-profit organisation.  blogging is in this weird no man s land. people think of it as being one thing or another depending on their point of view   said mr hopkins.  some think of themselves as pundits  kind of like journalists  and some like me have a private blog which is just a publishing platform.  but they do not have a constituency and are out there in the cold.   it is not just human rights issues in countries which have a track record of restricting what is published in the media that is of concern to bloggers. the question of bloggers and what rights they have to say what they want on their sites is a thorny one and has received much press attention recently. high profile cases in which employees have been sacked for what they have said on their personal  and often anonymous blogs  have highlighted the muddy situation that the blogsphere is currently in.   this is a big messy argument   explained mr hopkins. he added:  it is just such a new way of doing business  there will be clamp downs.  but the way these issues get tested is through the courts which  said mr hopkins   is part of the whole messy conversation.   if you haven t already got bloggers in your company  you will have them tomorrow - and if you don t have a blogger policy now you had better start looking at having one. mr hopkins said that the blogsphere - which is doubling every five months - was powerful because it takes so little time and expertise to create a blog.  everyone does this - mums  radicals  conservatives   he said. many companies offer easy-to-use services to create a blog and publish it in minutes to a global community.  that is the essential difference. what i call  templating software  gives every single person on earth the chance to have one.  you don t even have to have your own computer.
hewitt fights back to reach final lleyton hewitt kept his dream of an australian open title alive with a four-set win over andy roddick in friday s second semi-final.  the home favourite will face marat safin in sunday s final after coming through 3-6 7-6 (7-3) 7-6 (7-4) 6-1. hewitt fought back from a set down and trailed in both tie-breaks but would not be denied  thrilling the melbourne crowd with a typically battling effort. he is aiming to be the first australian winner since mark edmondson in 1976. hewitt is the first australian to make the final since pat cash lost to mats wilander in 1988  but faces a huge challenge against safin - the conqueror of roger federer. after needing five sets in his last two matches there was reason to think hewitt might struggle for fitness. he certainly made a sluggish start  dropping his opening service game  and roddick dominated with his huge serve as he took the first set.  after 12 tense games in the second  the key moment came when hewitt raised his game in the tie-break to overturn an early mini-break. that energised the crowd but roddick was not finished and raced 4-1 clear in the crucial third before hewitt pegged him back and forced another tie-break. again roddick broke first and again hewitt fought back  taking the lead with a superb backhand pass.  the australian was not to be denied and a disheartened roddick made little impact in the fourth set as hewitt raced to victory  sending the melbourne crowd wild and ensuring the final will be a huge occasion.  it s awesome   said hewitt.  i started preparing for this tournament nine months ago.  i ve done a lot of hard yards to get here.  i ve always said i d do anything to get in the first night final at the australian open. now i ve got my chance.  roddick was furious with himself for failing to take advantage of leads in both tie-breaks.  i m usually pretty money in those   said roddick.  either one of those would have given me a distinct advantage.  i m mad  i felt i was in there with a shot. he put himself in position to win big points. i donated a little more than i would have wanted.  and the american played down the influence of one spectator who appeared to contribute to a double fault by shouting during rodick s service action.  it just took one jackass to shout out   said roddick  adding that the crowd overall was  very respectful .
lse  sets date for takeover deal  the london stock exchange (lse) is planning to announce a preferred takeover by the end of the month  newspaper reports claim.  the sunday telegraph said the lse s plan was further evidence it wants to retain tight control over its destiny. both deutsche boerse and rival euronext held talks with the london market last week over a possible offer. a £1.3bn offer from deutsche boerse has already been rejected  while euronext has said it will make an all cash bid. speculation suggests that paris-based euronext has the facilities in place to make a bid of £1.4bn  while its german rival may up its bid to the £1.5bn mark. neither has yet tabled a formal bid  but the lse is expected to hold further talks with the two parties later this week. however  the sunday telegraph report added that there are signs that deutsche boerse chief executive werner seifert is becoming increasingly impatient with the lse s managed bid process.  despite insisting he wants to agree a recommended deal with the lse s board  the newspaper suggested he may pull out of the process and put an offer directly to shareholders instead. the newspaper also claimed mr seifert was becoming  increasingly frustrated  with the pace of negotiations since deutsche boerse s £1.3bn offer was rejected in mid-december  in particular the lse s decision to suspend talks over the christmas period. meanwhile  the german exchange s offer has come under fire recently. unions for deutsche boerse staff in frankfurt have reportedly expressed fears that up to 300 jobs would be moved to london if the takeover is successful. others claim it will weaken the city s status as europe s financial centre  while german politicians are also said to be angry over the market operator s promise to move its headquarters to london if a bid is successful. a further stumbling block is deutsche boerse s control over its clearstream unit  the clearing house that processes securities transactions. lse shareholders fear it would create a monopoly situation  weakening the position of shareholders when negotiating lower transaction fees for share dealings. lse and euronext do not have control over their clearing and settlement operations  a situation which critics say is more transparent and competitive.
cairn shares slump on oil setback shares in cairn energy  a uk oil firm  have closed down 18% after a disappointing drilling update and a warning over possible tax demands.  the company said tests had shown no significant finds in one of its indian oil fields  but was upbeat about the potential of other areas. it also said the indian government had told it to pay a production tax  for which cairn argues it is not liable. cairn s shares have jumped by almost 400% this year. investors had piled into cairn after the company announced significant oil finds in india this year. chief executive bill gammell said on friday he was  disappointed  with exploration in the so-called n-c extension area in rajasthan. investors had held high hopes of major oil finds in this area. but cairn said estimates had been revised in what was a  significant downgrade of the initial expectation .  cairn also said that the government believed the company was liable to pay taxes under its production-sharing contract. the company said the rate would be about 900 rupees ($20.40; £10.50) per tonne  or seven barrels  of oil. a spokesman for the firm said that the tax would wipe 5% of the field s current value.   cairn refutes the government s position   mr gammell said. he insisted that the contract made it clear that the tax should be shouldered by the licensee - india s state-run oil & natural gas corp (ongc) - and not the contractor.  we have a pretty strong legal case here   he added  saying it would only become an issue once the firm started production. investors took a dim view of the statements though. the shares closed down 247p  or 18%  at 1115 pence.  i think people were slightly over-ambitious for how quickly cairn would be able to develop and potentially offload these reserves   said analyst jason kenney at ing.  the disappointments overshadowed increased production targets for cairn s existing oilfields. the company raised targets for its mangala and aishwariya fields in india from 60 000 barrels a day to between 80 000 and 100 000 barrels a day. its mangala field  thought to contain a billion barrels  is its biggest find to date.  these two fields will provide the core of the future developments in rajasthan   mr gammell said. cairn added that it would be appraising another field early next year. mr gammell set up the company in the 1980s and has successfully switched its focus to south asia from interests in the us and europe. cairn  which also operates in nepal and bangladesh  was catapulted into the ftse 100 index of leading uk shares earlier this year after the sharp rise in its share price.
mci shares climb on takeover bid shares in us phone company mci have risen on speculation that it is in takeover talks.  the wall street journal reported on thursday that qwest has bid $6.3bn (£3.4bn) for mci. other firms have also expressed an interest in mci  the second-largest us long-distance phone firm  and may now table rival bids  analysts said. shares in mci  which changed its name from worldcom when it emerged from bankruptcy  were up 2.4% at $20.15. press reports suggest that qwest and mci may reach an agreement as early as next week  although rival bids may muddy the waters. the largest us telephone company verizon has previously held preliminary merger discussions with mci  reuters quoted sources as saying.  consolidation in the us telecommunications industry has picked up in the past few months as companies look to cut costs and boost client bases. a merger between mci and qwest would be the fifth billion-dollar telecoms deal since october. last week  sbc communications agreed to buy its former parent and phone trailblazer at&t for about $16bn. competition has intensified and fixed-line phone providers such as mci and at&t have seen themselves overtaken by rivals. buying mci would give qwest  a local phone service provider  access to mci s global network and business-based subscribers. mci also offers internet services.  mci was renamed after it emerged from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in april last year. it hit the headlines as worldcom in 2002 after admitting it illegally booked expenses and inflated profits. the scandal was a key factor in a global slide in share prices and the reverberations are still being felt today. shareholders lost about $180bn when the company collapsed  while 20 000 workers lost their jobs. former worldcom boss bernie ebbers is currently on trial  accused of overseeing an $11bn fraud.
pompeii gets digital make-over the old-fashioned audio tour of historical places could soon be replaced with computer-generated images that bring the site to life.  a european union-funded project is looking at providing tourists with computer-augmented versions of archaeological attractions. it would allow visitors a glimpse of life as it was originally lived in places such as pompeii. it could pave the way for a new form of cultural tourism.  the technology would allow digital people and other computer-generated elements to be combined with the actual view seen by tourists as they walk around an historical site.  the lifeplus project is part of the eu s information society technologies initiative aimed at promoting user-friendly technology and enhancing european cultural heritage. engineers and researchers working in the europe-wide consortium have come up with a prototype augmented-reality system. it would require the visitor to wear a head-mounted display with a miniature camera and a backpack computer. the camera captures the view and feeds it to software on the computer where the visitor s viewpoint is combined with animated virtual elements. at pompeii for example  the visitor would not just see the frescos  taverns and villas that have been excavated  but also people going about their daily life. augmented reality has been used to create special effects in films such as troy and lord of the rings and in computer gaming.   this technology can now be used for much more than just computer games   said professor nadia magnenat-thalman of the swiss research group miralab.   we are  for the first time  able to run this combination of software processes to create walking  talking people with believable clothing  skin and hair in real-time   she said. unlike virtual reality  which delivers an entirely computer-generated scene to the viewer  the lifeplus project is about combining digital and real views. crucial to the technique is the software that interprets the visitor s view and provides an accurate match between the real and virtual elements. the software capable of doing this has been developed by a uk company  2d3. andrew stoddart  chief scientist at 2d3  said that the eu project has been driven by a new desire to bring the past to life.  the popularity of television documentaries and dramatisations using computer-generated imagery to recreate scenes from ancient history demonstrates the widespread appeal of bringing ancient cultures to life   he said.
spirit awards hail sideways the comedy sideways has dominated this year s independent spirit awards  winning all six of the awards for which it was nominated.  it was named best film while alexander payne won best director and best screenplay  along with writing partner jim taylor. it also won acting awards for stars paul giamatti  thomas haden church and virginia madsen. sideways is tipped to do well at sunday s oscars  with five nominations.  the awards  now in their 20th year  are given to films made outside the traditional studio system  and are traditionally held the day before the oscars. other winners included catalina sandino moreno  who took best actress for her role as a drug smuggler in the colombian drama maria full of grace. moreno is also nominated for best actress at the oscars. the best first screenplay award went to joshua marston for maria full of grace. scrubs star zach braff won the award for best first feature for garden state  which he wrote  directed and starred in. oscar-nominated euthanasia film the sea inside from spain won best foreign film  while metallica: some kind of monster was awarded best documentary. actor rodrigo de la serna took the best debut performance prize for the motorcycle diaries. the awards are voted for by the 9 000 members of the independent feature project/los angeles  which includes actors  directors  writers and other industry professionals. last year s big winner  lost in translation  went on to win the oscar for best original screenplay  for writer-director sofia coppola.
probe launched on ken nazi jibe an investigation by the standards board is under way following allegations that ken livingstone has brought his office into disrepute.  the probe follows the london mayor s comments to a jewish journalist comparing him to a concentration camp guard  after a party about a week ago. the local government watchdog also said the allegation related to a failure to respect others. it has the power to suspend or bar labour s mr livingstone from office. a complaint was made to the body by the board of deputies of british jews and the commission for racial equality.  speaking after the investigation was announced bob neill  leader of the london assembly conservatives  said:  he has behaved in a manner unbecoming of his office and in so doing  has shown extraordinarily poor civic leadership.  his administration is now in crisis.  on sunday  deputy mayor nicky gavron told the bbc s politics show she believed the mayor of london would say sorry on tuesday for offending the wider jewish community. the prime minister tony blair is among those who have called for an apology but so far the mayor has refused.  the mayor accused oliver finegold  of the evening standard newspaper  of  doorstepping  him at a  predominately gay event  held for mp chris smith. ms gavron said she thought mr livingstone s comments were  inappropriate  but she did not believe the mayor was anti-semitic. she said:  i work very closely with ken so i can speak of what he s like in his guarded and unguarded moments and... he is in no way anti-jewish  i wouldn t for a moment work with him if he were.  on the other hand  i think his remarks were inappropriate and i believe it is important  and i believe he will  come to the point where he says   i regret that i have caused offence to the wider jewish community .  i hope he will do it soon and it is mooted that he is going to make some sort of statement on tuesday.
highbury tunnel players in clear the football association has said it will not be bringing charges over the tunnel incident prior to the arsenal and manchester united game.  arsenal s patrick vieira had earlier denied accusations that he threatened gary neville before the 4-2 defeat. vieira also clashed with opposing skipper roy keane and referee graham poll had to separate them.  the referee has confirmed that he is satisfied he dealt with the incident at the time   said an fa statement. it means united s win will pass off without further intervention from the governing body  whose new chief executive brian barwick was in the highbury stands.   i didn t threaten anybody. they are big enough players to handle themselves   said vieira.  i had a talk with roy keane and that s it. gary neville is a big lad  he can handle himself.  they just played better than us and deserved to win.  neville admitted there had been incidents before the game  but insisted it had not distracted his focus.  there were a couple of things that did happen before the game which disappoint you   he said.  especially from players of that calibre  but it s a tough game and we ve been around a long time.  neville admitted that he had not enjoyed the match  which was punctuated by fouls and the sending off of mikael silvestre for head-butting freddie ljungberg .  i thought it was a horrible game in the first half  and it was not much better in the second   he said.  there is no way that should have happened in a football match.   after the match  keane accused vieira of starting the row.  patrick vieira is 6ft 4in and having a go at gary neville. so i said   have a go at me    he said.  if he wants to intimidate our players and thinks that gary neville is an easy target  i m not having it.  manchester united manager sir alex ferguson added:  vieira was well wound up for it.  i ve heard different stories. patrick vieira has apparently threatened some of our players and things like that.
gadget market  to grow in 2005  the explosion in consumer technology is to continue into 2005  delegates at the world s largest gadget show  in las vegas  have been told.  the number of gadgets in the shops is predicted to grow by 11%  while devices which talk to each other will become increasingly important.  everything is going digital   kirsten pfeifer from the consumer electronics association  told the bbc news website. the consumer electronics show (ces) featured the pick of 2005 s products.  consumers are controlling what they want and technologies like hdtvs [high-definition tvs]  digital radio  and digital cameras will remain strong in 2005.  all the products on show really showed the breadth and depth of the industry.  despite showing diversity  some delegates attending complained that the showcase lacked as much  wow factor  as in previous years.  the portable technologies on show also reflected one of the buzzwords of ces  which was the  time and place shifting  of multimedia content - being able to watch and listen to video and music anywhere  at any time. at the start of last year s ces  the cea predicted there would be an average growth of 4% in 2004. that figure was surpassed with the rise in popularity of portable digital music players  personal video recorders and digital cameras. it was clear also that gadgets are becoming a lot more about lifestyle choice  with fashion and personalisation becoming increasingly key to the way gadgets are designed. part of this has been the rise in spending power of the  generation x-ers  who have grown up with technology and who now have the spending power and desire for more devices that suit them. more than 57% of the consumer electronics market is made up of female buyers  according to cea research. hybrid devices  which combine a number of multimedia functions  were also in evidence on the show floor.  a lot of this is driven by just the ability to do it   said stephen baker  a consumer electronics analyst with retail research firm npd group.  some of these functions cost next to nothing to add.   as well as the show floor showcasing everything from tiny wearable mp3 players to giant high-definition tvs  several keynote speeches were made by industry leaders  such as microsoft chief bill gates. despite several embarrassing technical glitches during mr gate s pre-show speech  he announced several new partnerships - mainly for the us market. he unveiled new ways of letting people take tv shows recorded on personal video recorders and watch them back on portable devices. he disappointed some  however  by failing to announce any details of the next generation of the xbox games console. another disappointment was the lack of exposure sony s new portable games device  the psp  had at the show. sony said the much-anticipated gadget would most likely start shipping in march for the us and europe. it went on sale in japan before christmas. there were only two psps embedded in glass cabinets at the show though and no representatives to discuss further details. a sony representative told the bbc news website this was because sony did not consider it to be part of their  consumer technology  offering.  elsewhere at the show  there was a plethora of colour and plasma screens  including samsung s 102-inch (2.6 metre) plasma - the largest in the world. industry experts were also excited about high-definition technologies coming to the fore in 2005  with new formats for dvds coming out which will hold six times as much data as conventional dvds. with so many devices on the move there were a lot of products on show offering external storage  like seagate s 5gb pocket sized external hard drive  which won an innovation for engineering and design prize. more than 120 000 trade professionals attended ces in las vegas  which officially ran from 6 to 9 january.
the pirates with no profit motive two men who were part of a huge network of internet software pirates  known as drink or die  have been convicted at the old bailey. bbc news investigates how the network worked and what motivated those involved.  they called themselves drink or die (dod). they were a network of computer buffs who derived pleasure from cracking codes protecting copyrighted software such as windows 95. they would then share it with each other. there is no suggestion any of them profited financially. but the authorities in both britain and the united states considered it software piracy and took a dim view of networks such as dod  one of a number of so-called warez organisations operating on the internet. in october 2000 the us customs service began an investigation into dod and other networks  such as razor 1911  risciso  myth and popz.  fourteen months later us customs co-ordinated a series of raids across the globe as part of operation buccaneer. seventy search warrants were executed in the us  britain  australia  norway  sweden and finland. at least 60 people were arrested worldwide - 45 of them in the us. among the leaders of the network were americans john sankus - known by his internet nickname eriflleh (hellfire spelt backwards) - richard berry  kent kartadinata and christopher tresco  who used a server based at the prestigious massachusetts institute of technology (mit).  the longest jail sentence - 46 months - was handed down to sankus  a 28-year-old from philadelphia. us attorney paul mcnulty said at the time:  john sankus and his techno-gang operated in the faceless world of the internet and thought they would never be caught.  they were wrong. these sentences  and those to follow  should send a message to others entertaining similar beliefs of invincibility.  but one man still in legal limbo is british-born australian hew raymond griffiths  who is still fighting against extradition to the us.  us customs claimed mr griffiths was one of dod s leaders but his lawyer  antony townsden  told the bbc news website it was a laughable suggestion and added:  he was living on welfare and had such an old computer that he couldn t even download software.  the allegation that he was the group s co-leader is illusory. he had the least technical skills of anyone  he couldn t crack any codes and he has only been called a leader because he was a loudmouth who wrote a lot on their messageboard.  mr townsden said if he had committed any crimes he should be prosecuted in australia  not the us. he claimed the australian government s decision to accept the extradition request was typical of their current  acquiescent  attitude to the us.  mr griffiths is expecting to hear this week the outcome of his appeal against the decision to extradite him. those involved would give themselves internet aliases which would act in the same way as tags used by graffiti artists. they could then brag about their code-cracking abilities without giving away their real identities. alex bell  whose trial at the old bailey ended on friday  was known as mr 2940 - after a computer device - while his co-defendant steven dowd s nickname  curiously  was tim.  a spokesman for us immigration  customs and enforcement  dean boyd  said dod did not appear to be motivated by money. their motivation was the kudos which surrounded being able to crack sophisticated software. he told the bbc news website:  primarily they were just interested in how fast they could crack the code. it was all about underground notoriety.  but mr boyd pointed out that once the software had been distributed on the internet it fell into the hands of organised criminals who were able to mass produce pirated software at zero cost.   it cost us industries a lot of money  billions of dollars   he said. mr boyd said:  it was truly global in scope. we raided a number of universities  including duke (in north carolina) and mit  and found that several of the people involved were employed by major computer corporations.  they would go home from work in the evenings and get involved in this warez culture.  warez groups  which began to surface in the early 1990s  operate according to a strict code of honour.  for example if one group cracked the software first its rivals would respect that achievement and not seek to claim it themselves. mr boyd said the destruction of dod was a great coup but he added:  i m not going to sit here and say we have sorted the problem. there are still hackers and people who do this for fun.  internet piracy of computer software remains a gigantic problem.  a spokesman for the business software alliance said:  dod members claim they did not profit at all. but they did profit by getting access to very expensive servers.  he said dod and other warez groups were fostering a  culture of piracy  on the internet. he said 29% of computer software in britain was believed to have been pirated and this cost £1bn in revenue for software companies  their suppliers and distributors.  it may seem like a victimless crime but it touches more people than you might care to believe.
royal couple watch nation s mood prince charles and camilla parker bowles are awaiting the nation s reaction after announcing they are to be married on 8 april.  mrs parker bowles will take the title hrh duchess of cornwall after a civil ceremony to be held at windsor castle. a daily telegraph poll of 1 313 people suggests two-thirds of britons support the couple s decision to marry. but only 40% think mrs parker bowles should become princess consort as planned after charles becomes king. some 47% believe she should have no title  while 7% think she should become queen.  the poll also found that the majority of britons would prefer the monarchy to miss a generation  with the queen handing the throne to her grandson prince william  22  on her death or abdication. on thursday night  prince charles  56  and mrs parker bowles  57  hosted a dinner at windsor castle  their first public appearance since announcing their engagement. mrs parker bowles said the prince went down on one knee to propose and added:  i m just coming down to earth.  she displayed her diamond engagement ring - a royal family heirloom - to reporters. charles said he and his wife-to-be were  absolutely delighted . their marriage will end years of speculation on a relationship which dates back to 1970.  the queen and duke of edinburgh said the news had made them  very happy . princes william and harry said they are  very happy  and wish the couple  all the luck in the future . the wedding will be a civil ceremony followed by a service of prayer and dedication in st george s chapel at which the archbishop of canterbury  dr rowan williams  will preside.  the marriage is likely to be a sensitive issue because mrs parker bowles is divorced and her former husband is still alive. if he became king  charles would be the supreme governor of the church of england and some anglicans remain opposed to the remarriage of divorcees.  his divorce from diana and the disappointment the country felt over how diana had been treated... opened up a sense of disillusionment with [prince charles]   said ros coward  who wrote the authorised biography of diana  princess of wales. the archbishop of canterbury said:  i am pleased that prince charles and mrs camilla parker bowles have decided to take this important step.  tony blair said he was  delighted  for the couple and offered his congratulations  as did conservative leader michael howard and liberal democrat leader charles kennedy. australia s prime minister john howard also offered his congratulations  adding that their decision to marry was a  sensible and a good thing . mrs parker bowles has joined the prince at numerous engagements in recent years - mostly at evening events for the prince s trust. clarence house staff were at pains to point out that she attended these events in a private capacity.
soderling wins tense milan final fifth seed robin soderling took the milan indoors title with a dramatic win over radek stepanek in sunday s final.  the 20-year-old swede edged the final set tie-break for a 6-3 6-7 (2-7) 7-6 (7-5) victory and his second tour title after winning in lyon last year.  i m delighted to have won against such a good opponent in a tournament of this importance   said soderling.  i was really on form  my service was good and i really liked playing on the synthetic surface.  soderling  the world number 37  shrugged off a nervous start to take the opening set on his first set point. a change in approach from fourth seed stepanek in the second set paid dividends as he took it on a tie-break  but soderling s superior power proved too much in the third.
golden rule boost for chancellor chancellor gordon brown has been given a £2.1bn boost in his attempts to meet his golden economic rule  which allows him to borrow only for investment.  the extra leeway came after the office for national statistics said it had been measuring road expenditure data wrongly over the past five years. it comes just weeks ahead of the budget and an expected general election. shadow chancellor oliver letwin said:  at best the timing of these changes is very convenient for the government.   a review by the ons found it had made a mistake by  double counting  some spending on roads since 1998/9. correcting the error would mean reducing current expenditure and increasing net investment  thus helping mr brown to meet his  golden rule  of borrowing only to invest over the economic cycle. economists speculated that it might also allow for some vote-catching measures in the budget.  the changes by the ons increase the current budget measure for the past five years by £2.1bn in total. mr letwin said:  this is a very murky area... there will inevitably be suspicions that the figures are being fiddled.  the conservatives also said mr brown would still be forced to raise taxes after the general election to fill an annual £10.5bn  black hole  in the nation s coffers. but the treasury said there would be no relaxation of economic discipline and the golden rule would be met even without the data revisions.  in january the independent institute for fiscal studies (ifs) said mr brown would need to raise taxes to get public finances onto the track predicted in last year s budget. it also said the government might narrowly miss its  golden rule  if the current economic cycle ended in 2005/06. after the ons announcement  economists said there could also be a proportionate boost to the current budget in 2004/05 of about £400m.  none of this changes the big picture of a dramatic deterioration in the overall fiscal position over the last four or five years   said jonathan loynes  chief uk economist at capital economics.  accordingly  it seems very likely that some form of fiscal consolidation will be required in due course.
us airways staff agree to pay cut a union representing 5 200 flight attendants at bankrupt us airways have agreed to a new contract that cuts pay by nearly 10%.  the deal will help the carrier  trying to survive by cutting costs by nearly $1bn (£530m) a year  save about $94m. more than two thirds of its 28 000 staff have now accepted wage cuts. but talks are still continuing with a union representing mechanics  baggage handlers and cleaners  which has so far failed to negotiate a new contract. the seventh largest carrier in the us sought bankruptcy protection for a second time in two years last september. it had been one of the quickest to deal with difficulties faced by the aviation industry after the 9/11 attacks in 2001. but it emerged from chapter 11 bankruptcy in march 2003 to face competition from low-cost carriers and higher fuel costs. us airways management has said it may need to start liquidating assets if it does not receive concessions from all staff by the middle of this month.
fockers keeps us box office lead film comedy meet the fockers  sequel to meet the parents  has topped the us box office for a third week.  the movie  which stars ben stiller  robert de niro  dustin hoffman and barbra streisand  took $28.5m (£15.2m)  making a total of 204.3m (£109m). michael keaton thriller white noise was second with $24m (£12.8m) despite negative reviews. martin scorsese s howard hughes biopic the aviator came third with $7.6m (£4m) and a total of $42.9m (£22.8m). children s adventure lemony snicket s a series of unfortunate events  starring jim carrey and meryl streep  fell two places to fourth position with $7.4m (£3.9m).  it is also the ninth jim carrey film to hit the $100m (£53.2m) mark  according to exhibitor relations. and fat albert  a live-action adaptation of bill cosby s tv cartoon  fell one place to number five  with takings over the three days beginning on friday of $5m (£2.6m). ocean s twelve took sixth place in the us chart with $5.4m (£2.8m)  but it led the non-us chart at the weekend  according to hollywood reporter  with an estimated $17.7m (£9.4m) and total takings of $137m (£73m). the incredibles took $300m (£160m) outside the us  while meet the fockers topped box office charts in australia and mexico with non-us takings of $19.35m (£10.2m).
hewitt decries  career sexism  plans to extend paid maternity leave beyond six months should be prominent in labour s election manifesto  the trade and industry secretary has said.  patricia hewitt said the cost of the proposals was being evaluated  but it was an  increasingly high priority  and a  shared goal across government . ms hewitt was speaking at a gender and productivity seminar organised by the equal opportunities commission (eoc). mothers can currently take up to six months  paid leave - and six unpaid. ms hewitt told the seminar:  clearly  one of the things we need to do in the future is to extend the period of payment for maternity leave beyond the first six months into the second six months.  we are looking at how quickly we can do that  because obviously there are cost implications because the taxpayer reimburses the employers for the cost of that.   ms hewitt also announced a new drive to help women who want to work in male dominated sectors  saying sexism at work was still preventing women reaching their full potential. plans include funding for universities to help female science and engineering graduates find jobs and  taster courses  for men and women in non-traditional jobs. women in full-time work earn 19% less than men  according to the equal opportunities commission (eoc).  the minister told delegates that getting rid of  career sexism  was vital to closing the gender pay gap.   career sexism limits opportunities for women of all ages and prevents them from achieving their full potential.  it is simply wrong to assume someone cannot do a job on the grounds of their sex   she said. earlier  she told bbc radio 4 s today programme:  what we are talking about here is the fact that about six out of 20 women work in jobs that are low-paid and typically dominated by women  so we have got very segregated employment.  unfortunately  in some cases  this reflects very old-fashioned and stereotypical ideas about the appropriate jobs for women  or indeed for men.  career sexism is about saying that engineering  for instance  where only 10% of employees are women  is really a male-dominated industry. construction is even worse.  but it is also about saying childcare jobs are really there for women and not suitable for men. career sexism goes both ways.   she added that while progress had been made  there was still a gap in pay figures.  the average woman working full-time is being paid about 80p for every pound a man is earning. for women working part-time it is 60p.  the department for trade and industry will also provide funding to help a new pay experts panel run by the tuc.  it has been set up to advise hundreds of companies on equal wage policies. research conducted by the eoc last year revealed that many britons believe the pay gap between men and women is the result of  natural differences  between the sexes. women hold less than 10% of the top positions in ftse 100 companies  the police  the judiciary and trade unions  according to their figures. and retired women have just over half the income of their male counterparts on average.
more movies head to sony s psp movies open water and saw are among those to be made available for sony s psp games console.  film studio lions gate entertainment has announced an initial list of 12 movies that will be on the umd format used by the handheld.  the typical buyer of the machine [is] the core demographic to whom our films generally appeal   said steve beeks  president of lions gate. already available in japan  the psp is released in the us on 24 march. spider-man 2 on umd will be given to the first million customers in the us.  the punisher and house of the dead along with older titles such as total recall and rambo: first blood  will be in the umd format  with disks costing between $20 (£10.40) to $30 (£15.60) for new titles and $10 (£5.20) to $20 for older films.   when we first saw the machine and started talking to sony  we immediately decided it was going to be a winner  both from the gaming perspective and from the perspective of people watching movies on the go   mr beeks said. the disks  which are smaller than dvds  only work in sony s psp and can hold up to 1.8gb of data.  we actually believe people who buy the umd would not have bought it on dvd   he said.  there are people who will want umd because of the portability. maybe they re already taking the games with them out of the house  and they re bigger gamers than they are movie watchers.  four movies have already been announced for psp. they are: xxx  hellboy  resident evil: apocalypse and once upon a time in mexico.
help for indies in download sales a campaign has been launched to help independent labels get their music online and benefit from the growing trend for downloading music.  the british phonographic industry has identified a lack of independent music available for download.  we want to ensure that independent repertoire is as successful in the download world as it is in the physical world   said bpi chief peter jamieson. downloaded singles have now overtaken physical singles in the uk. mr jamieson said his organisation was lobbying music service providers  which include itunes and napster  to urge them to promote independent releases. download sales are due to be incorporated into the uk singles chart later this year.  with downloads shortly to be eligible for the singles chart  this is a key commercial issue on which the bpi committed to assisting its members   added mr jamieson. as part of the campaign the bpi is running a series of seminars entitled getting your music online  focusing on how independent labels can embrace digital music. the us has already begun incorporating download sales in the billboard s hot 100 chart.
uk troops on ivory coast standby downing street has confirmed british troops are on standby in case they need to help evacuate several hundred uk citizens from ivory coast.  the news came as it emerged france had begun evacuating its hostages after days of anti-french demonstrations. trouble flared after nine french peacekeepers were killed and president jacques chirac ordered the destruction of the ivory coast s air force. a company of 100-120 uk troops is understood to have been put on standby. they are ready to fly out and secure the route from the embassy to the airport if called upon. prime minister tony blair s official spokesman said:  there are british nationals in ivory coast and as you can imagine we are making the usual contingency plans in case the situation deteriorates further  but that s all i can say at this stage.   he added the situation would be monitored carefully in case evacuation became necessary. france has played a lead role in international peacekeeping in ivory coast - a former colony - after president laurent gbagbo broke an 18-month ceasefire with rebels bombing their positions and killing the nine french soldiers. the decision to destroy the african nation s small air force prompted riots against french and other foreign nationals. the spanish have already put their forces on standby to evacuate their nationals if necessary.
radcliffe will compete in london paula radcliffe will compete in the flora london marathon this year after deciding her schedule for 2005.  the 31-year-old won the race in 2002 on her marathon debut  defended her title 12 months later and will now seek a third title in the 17 april race.  it doesn t get any better than this for the 25th anniversary   said race director david bedford.  after announcing the greatest men s field ever we now have the greatest women s distance runner ever.  three years ago radcliffe smashed the women s world record in two hours 18 minutes 15 seconds.  the bedford star returned to london 12 months later  lowering her mixed-race world record of 2:17:18  which she set in chicago in october 2003  by one minute 53 secs. radcliffe s career took a setback when she failed to complete the olympic marathon and later dropped out of the athens 10 000m last august. but the 31-year-old bounced back to win the new york marathon in november. radcliffe  however  passed up the chance to go for the  big city  marathon grand slam. with wins in chicago  london and new york  only the boston marathon remains to be conquered but that takes place a day after london.  boston is definitely a race i want to do at some point  but london is very special to me   said radcliffe.  i don t pick races thinking about things like pressure. i pick the ones in my heart i really want to do.  i love the atmosphere  crowds and course and know it will always be a great quality race.  it is also the 25th anniversary this year which adds to the occasion.
ecb holds rates amid growth fears the european central bank has left its key interest rate unchanged at 2% for the 19th month in succession.  borrowing costs have remained on hold amid concerns about the strength of economic growth in the 12 nations sharing the euro  analysts said. despite signs of pick-up  labour markets and consumer demand remain sluggish  while firms are eyeing cost cutting measures such as redundancies. high oil prices  meanwhile  have put upward pressure on the inflation rate.  surveys of economists have shown that the majority expect borrowing costs to stay at 2% in coming months  with an increase of a quarter of a percentage point predicted some time in the second half of the year. if anything  there may be greater calls for an interest rate cut  especially with the euro continuing to strengthen against the dollar.  the euro land economy is still struggling with this recovery   said economist dirk schumacher. the ecb  may sound rather hawkish but once the data allows them to cut again  they will.  data coming out of germany on thursday underlined the problems facing european policy makers. while germany s economy expanded by 1.7% in 2004  growth was driven by export sales and lost some of its momentum in the last three months of the year.  the strength of the euro is threatening to dampen that foreign demand in 2005  and domestic consumption currently is not strong enough to take up the slack. inflation in the eurozone  however  is estimated at about 2.3% in december  above ecb guidelines of 2%. ecb president jean-claude trichet has remained upbeat about prospects for the region  and inflation is expected to drop below 2% later in 2005. the ecb has forecast economic growth in the eurozone of 1.9% in 2005.
new harry potter tops book chart harry potter and the half-blood prince has topped amazon s book chart less than 24 hours after its release date - 16 july - was announced.  thousands of customers placed pre-orders on the amazon.co.uk website for the sixth book in the series. rowling revealed she had completed the novel on tuesday  ahead of the scheduled announcement on 25 december. it will be published simultaneously in the uk  the us  canada  australia  new zealand and south africa. jk rowling s fifth book in the wizard series  harry potter and order of the phoenix was amazon s largest pre-ordered item ever  with 420 000 copies pre-ordered prior to its release in june 2003. customers who pre-order harry potter and the half-blood prince avoid standing in long queues at bookshops on the day of the book s release next july.  the fact that the book has already hit number one in our hot 100 books chart shows how incredibly excited customers are about the sixth harry potter   said amazon s robin terrell.  harry potter and the half-blood prince takes up the story of harry potter s sixth year at hogwarts school of witchcraft and wizardry as lord voldemort grows stronger. rowling has already revealed that the half-blood prince is neither harry nor voldemort. and she added that the opening chapter of the book had been brewing in her mind for 13 years. rowling said she had plenty of time while pregnant  to tinker with the manuscript to my satisfaction and i am as happy as i have ever been with the end result . she also previously revealed that a character will be killed in the sixth book  but she has given no hints as to who it might be. following publication of the sixth book  just one novel remains to complete the series.
donor attacks blair-brown  feud  the reported feud between tony blair and gordon brown has prompted a labour donor to say he will almost certainly refuse to give more funds.  duncan bannatyne also attacked the government over iraq and its  poor  response to the asian tsunami crisis. his broadside came as ex-foreign secretary robin cook said he hoped mr brown would be premier at some point. mr bannatyne has previously given labour £50 000. he made his fortune from care homes and health clubs.  the 52-year-old on tuesday said was he was reviewing his donations because of cabinet disunity and international issues. his spokesman said it was highly unlikely he would give labour more money  although he would remain a supporter and not fund the conservatives.  robert peston s new book has prompted more speculation about the blair-brown rift with its claims that the prime minister broke a promise made in 2003 to stand down. mr bannatyne said:  disunity in the cabinet has a corrosive effect on the country.  gordon brown is a great chancellor who has delivered a stable economy  but business wants that to continue and not be blown off course by petty squabbles based on personal ambition.  the businessman  whose latest venture is a casino in newcastle  also voiced concern about the ongoing violence in iraq.  and he branded the uk government s response to the tsunami as  piecemeal and poor .  the people there need practical help not just pledges of money   he said.  the us has forces helping on the ground - we can do more.  british navy ships have helped the relief effort and the prime minister has said the government could ultimately give hundreds of millions of pounds in aid. mr bannatyne is due to host a new television programme and is also appearing on bbc2 business start-up programme dragon s den. but his spokesman insisted his attack on labour was not a publicity stunt.  in a separate development  robin cook gave his support to mr brown s prime ministerial ambitions but told a lunch for political journalists winning the election had to be labour s election. but he insisted the recent squabbles between mr blair and mr brown were not  perceived as a problem by the voters   adding there was no impression of governmental incompetence. mr cook argued that more prominence was given to these matters because there was  not an alternative source of opposition to the government . he warned the  abstentions party  was the real challenge to labour - and they would not be motivated by mr blair s promise to produce an  unremittingly new labour  election manifesto. his comments come after dave prentis  the leader of britain s biggest union unison  told the daily record newspaper he wants a date to be set for mr blair to be replaced as labour leader.
harinordoquy suffers france axe number eight imanol harinordoquy has been dropped from france s squad for the six nations match with ireland in dublin on 12 march.  harinordoquy was a second-half replacement in last saturday s 24-18 defeat to wales. bourgoin lock pascal pape  who has recovered from a sprained ankle  returns to the 22-man squad. wing cedric heymans and ludovic valbon come in for aurelien rougerie and jean-philippe grandclaude.  rougerie hurt his chest against wales while grandclaude was a second-half replacement against both england and wales. valbon  capped in last june s tests against the united states and canada  was a second half replacement in the win over scotland.  france coach bernard laporte said harinordoquy had been axed after a poor display last weekend.  imanol has been dropped from the squad because the least i can say is that he didn t make a thundering comeback against wales   said laporte.  we know the ireland game will be fast and rough and we also want to be able to replace both locks during the game if needed  and gregory lamboley can also come on at number seven or eight.  the grand slam is gone but we ll go to ireland to win.  it will be a very exciting game because ireland have three wins under their belt  have just defeated england and have their eyes set on a grand slam.  france  who lost to wales last week  must defeat the irish to keep alive their hopes of retaining the six nations trophy. ireland are unbeaten in this year s tournament and have their sights set on a first grand slam since 1948.  dimitri yachvili (biarritz)  pierre mignoni (clermont)  yann delaigue (castres)  frederic michalak (stade toulousain)  damien traille (biarritz)  yannick jauzion (stade toulousain)  ludovic valbon (biarritz)  christophe dominici (stade francais)  cedric heymans (stade toulousain)  julien laharrague (brive)  sylvain marconnet (stade francais)  nicolas mas (perpignan)  olivier milloud (bourgoin)  sebastien bruno (sale/eng)  william servat (stade toulousain)  fabien pelous (stade toulousain  capt)  jerome thion (biarritz)  pascal pap&#233; (bourgoin)  gregory lamboley (stade toulousain)  serge betsen (biarritz)  julien bonnaire (bourgoin)  yannick nyanga (b&#233;ziers)
mourinho to escape fa charge chelsea boss jose mourinho will not face any football association action over the comments he made after their carling cup tie with manchester united.  mourinho intimated that united boss sir alex ferguson influenced referee neale barry after the duo walked down the tunnel together at half-time. but an fa spokesman told bbc sport:  we are not taking action over mourinho.  we have looked at the comments and we have decided that no further action is required. that is the end of it.  mourinho was concerned that ferguson s conversation with barry was followed by an inconsistent display by the official.  i see one referee in the first half and another in the second   said mourinho.  if the fa ask me what happened  i will tell them. what i saw and felt made it easier to understand a few things.   maybe when i turn 60 and have been managing in the same league for 20 years and have the respect of everybody i will have the power to speak to people and make them tremble a little bit.  the referee controlled the game in one way during the first half but in the second they had dozens of free-kicks. it was fault after fault  dive after dive.  but i know the referee did not walk to the dressing rooms alone at half-time. he should only have had his two assistants and the fourth official with him  but there was also someone else.  referees chief keith hackett believes mourinho should retract his comments about ferguson and barry as he believes the blues boss has questioned their integrity.  i m hoping he might reconsider his comments  unfortunately this is the nature of the game   said hackett.  i don t want referees or myself getting in the psychological warfare between two managers. for the second leg we have an experienced referee  and we should be talking about the quality of that game rather than the refereeing.  sometimes managers have grounds for comments  and i note that  but a referees integrity has been questioned  that is offensive and should be avoided. mr mourinho should look at the facts.  mourinho added that the match was entertaining for a goalless draw and insisted his team could still reach the final.  it s 0-0  so if we win we go through and if we get a draw we go to extra time   he said.  we have exactly the same chance we had before this game.  we are confident of getting a result but we know what manchester united is  a footballing power. it ll be difficult for us  but also for them.
bellamy fined after row newcastle have fined their welsh striker craig bellamy two weeks  wages - about £80 000 - following his row with manager graeme souness.  but bellamy  25  has not been put on the transfer list  although he did not train with the first team on tuesday. magpies chairman freddy shepherd told the newcastle evening chronicle:  it is not about money. it is about a player thinking he is bigger than this club.  no individual is  be it the chairman  the manager or a player.  souness dropped bellamy for sunday s game against arsenal  claiming the welshman had feigned injury after being asked to play out of position.  when i heard what the manager was saying i was in shock   bellamy said.  i thought  not only has he gone behind my back  he s lying    he said in response to souness  remarks. and the wales international refused to apologise.  i won t apologise because i have done nothing wrong   he told the evening chronicle.  there s no doubt about it  i am out of here.  the difficult relationship between souness and bellamy boiled over at the weekend  and has led to a war of words in the media.  bellamy s claim that souness had lied about the background to the bust-up was strongly denied by shepherd  who accused the striker of  cheating  the club.  i wish to put the record straight regarding the bellamy situation   said shepherd.  craig walked off the training ground saying his hamstring was tight (on friday)  but what he failed to reveal was that he had told other members of the squad before training that he intended to feign injury.  when graeme discovered this he immediately ordered bellamy to attend a meeting in my office.  at that meeting bellamy admitted to graeme and i that he had told the players that he was going to  fake  an injury in training and walk off.  he also agreed at that meeting to apologise to his team-mates for his behaviour. he didn t do this which resulted in the action taken by the manager at the weekend  which i fully support.  in my book this is cheating on the club  the supporters  the manager and his own team-mates.  he is paid extremely well and i consider his behaviour to be totally unacceptable and totally unprofessional.   bellamy s latest outburst would appear to make his chances of a first-team recall remote. but even before newcastle said the player would not be sold  bellamy insisted he had no intention of handing in a transfer request.  i don t want the fans to think for one minute that i wouldn t play for this club   he said.  i d play anywhere for this club  even in goal.  it s a very difficult situation for me at the moment but i d never ask to leave this club.  this club means so much to me. i couldn t do it because i know i couldn t come back here and play against newcastle. it would hurt too much.
england  to launch ref protest  england will protest to the international rugby board (irb) about the referee s performance in the defeat by ireland  reports the daily mail.  england coach andy robinson has called on ex-international referees colin high and steve lander to analyse several of jonathan kaplan s decisions.  i want to go through the tape with colin and steve   robinson told the daily mail.  i want to speak to the irb about it. i think only one side was refereed.  high  the rugby football union s referees  manager  claimed kaplan made three major errors which changed the outcome of sunday s match. england were beaten 19-13 by the irish in dublin  their third straight defeat in the 2005 six nations.  the international rugby board will be disappointed   high told the daily mail.  jonathan kaplan is in the top 20 in the world but that wasn t an international performance.  it would not have been acceptable in the zurich premiership.  if one of my referees had done that  i would have had my backside kicked for making the appointment.  if any english referee refereed like that in a european match  there would be an inquest. no question about that.  if someone had performed like that  he would have been pulled from the next game.
virus poses as christmas e-mail security firms are warning about a windows virus disguising itself as an electronic christmas card.  the zafi.d virus translates the christmas greeting on its subject line into the language of the person receiving infected e-mail. anti-virus firms speculate that this multilingual ability is helping the malicious program spread widely online. anti-virus firm sophos said that 10% of the e-mail currently on the net was infected with the zafi virus.  like many other windows viruses  zafi-d plunders microsoft outlook for e-mail addresses and then uses mail-sending software to despatch itself across the web to new victims. to be infected users must open up the attachment travelling with the message which bears the code for the malicious bug. the attachment on the e-mail poses as an electronic christmas card but anyone opening it will simply get a crude image of two smiley faces.  the virus  subject line says  merry christmas  and translates this into one of 15 languages depending of the final suffix of the e-mail address the infected message has been sent to. the message in the body of the e-mail reads:  happy holidays  and this too is translated. on infected machines the virus tries to disable anti-virus and firewall software and opens up a backdoor on the pc to hand over control to the writer of the virus. the virus is thought to have spread most widely in south america  italy  spain  bulgaria and hungary. the original zafi virus appeared in april this year.  we have seen these hoaxes for several christmases already  and personally i prefer traditional pen and paper cards  and we recommend this to all our clients too   said mikko hypponen  who heads f-secure s anti-virus team.
india s rupee hits five-year high india s rupee has hit a five-year high after standard & poor s (s&p) raised the country s foreign currency rating.  the rupee climbed to 43.305 per us dollar on thursday  up from a close of 43.41. the currency has gained almost 1% in the past three sessions. s&p  which rates borrowers  creditworthiness  lifted india s rating by one notch to  bb+ . with indian assets now seen as less of a gamble  more cash is expected to flow into its markets  buoying the rupee.   the upgrade is positive and basically people will use it as an excuse to come back to india   said bhanu baweja  a strategist at ubs.  money has moved out from india in the first two or three weeks of january into other markets like korea and thailand and this upgrade should lead to a reversal.  india s foreign currency rating is now one notch below investment grade  which starts at  bbb- . the increase has put it on the same level as romania  egypt and el salvador  and one level below russia.
deutsche boerse set to  woo  lse bosses of deutsche boerse and the london stock exchange are to meet amid talk that a takeover bid for the lse will be raised to £1.5bn ($2.9bn).  last month  the german exchange tabled a 530 pence-per-share offer for lse  valuing it at £1.3bn. paris-based euronext  owner of liffe in london  has also said it is interested in bidding for lse. euronext is due to hold talks with lse this week and it is reported to be ready to raise £1.4bn to fund a bid. euronext chief jean-francois theodore is scheduled to meet his lse counterpart clara furse on friday. deutsche boerse chief werner seifert is meeting ms furse on thursday  in the third meeting between the two exchanges since the bid approach in december.  the lse rejected deutsche boerse s proposed £1.3bn offer in december  saying it undervalued the business.  but it agreed to leave the door open for talks to find out whether a  significantly-improved proposal  would be in the interests of lse s shareholders and customers. in the meantime  euronext  which combines the paris  amsterdam and lisbon stock exchanges  also began talks with the lse. in a statement on thursday  euronext said any offer was likely to be solely in cash  but added that:  there can be no assurances at this stage that any offer will be made.  a deal with either bidder would create the biggest stock market operator in europe and the second biggest in the world after the new york stock exchange.  according to the ft  in its latest meeting deutsche boerse will adopt a charm offensive to woo the london exchange. the newspaper said the german suitor will offer to manage a combined cash and equities market out of london and let ms furse take the helm. other reports this week said the deutsche boerse might even consider selling its luxembourg-based clearstream unit - the clearing house that processes securities transactions. its ownership of clearstream was seen as the main stumbling block to a london-frankfurt merger. lse shareholders feared a deutsche boerse takeover would force them to use clearstream  making it difficult for them to negotiate for lower transaction fees.
cup holders man utd visit everton holders manchester united and premiership leaders chelsea both face difficult away ties against premiership opposition in the fa cup fifth round.  united were drawn against everton  while chelsea face a trip to newcastle. brentford and hartlepool - the only sides left from outside the top two divisions - will replay for the right to travel to southampton. burnley s reward for a place in the last 16 was a home tie against lancashire rivals blackburn. the tie between manchester united and everton could see the return of teenage striker wayne rooney to his former club for the first time since his acrimonious £27m move.  nottingham forest boss gary megson could face a trip back to old club west brom if they come through their fourth-round replay against tottenham. arsenal were handed a potential home tie against fellow londoners west ham  providing the hammers come through their replay against sheffield united. charlton will play leicester and bolton await the winners of the derby-fulham replay.  : bolton v derby or fulham  west bromwich albion or tottenham v nottingham forest  everton v manchester united  charlton athletic v leicester city  burnley v blackburn  southampton v brentford or hartlepool  newcastle v chelsea  arsenal v west ham or sheffield united  ties to be played on 19/20 february.
iraq to invite phone licence bids iraq is to invite bids for two telephone licences  saying it wants to significantly boost nationwide coverage over the next decade.  bids have been invited from local  arab and foreign companies  iraq s ministry of communications said. the winner will work in partnership with the iraqi telecommunications and post company (itpc). the firms will install and operate a fixed phone network  providing voice  fax and internet services.  the ministry said that it wanted to increase iraq s  very low telephone service penetration rate from about 4.5% today to about 25% within 10 years.  it also hopes to develop a  highly visible and changeable telecommunication sector . details of the bidding and tender process will be published on the ministry s website on 9 february. it also is planning a road-show for investors in amman  jordan. the ministry said it would base its selection on criteria including the speed of implementation  tariff rates  coverage  and the firm s experience and financial strength.
peer-to-peer nets  here to stay  peer-to-peer (p2p) networks are here to stay  and are on the verge of being exploited by commercial media firms  says a panel of industry experts.  once several high-profile legal cases against file-sharers are resolved this year  firms will be very keen to try and make money from p2p technology. the expert panel probed the future of p2p at the consumer electronics show in las vegas earlier in january. the first convictions for p2p piracy were handed out in the us in january. william trowbridge and michael chicoine pleaded guilty to charges that they infringed copyright by illegally sharing music  movies and software. since the first successful file-sharing network napster was forced to close down  the entertainment industry has been nervous and critical of p2p technology  blaming it for falling sales and piracy. but that is going to change very soon  according to the panel.  the music and film industries have started some big legal cases against owners of legitimate p2p networks - which are not illegal in themselves - and of individuals accused of distributing pirated content over networks. but they have slowly realised that p2p is a good way to distribute content  said travis kalanick  founder and chairman of p2p network red swoosh  and soon they are all going to want a slice of it. they are just waiting to come up with  business models  that work for them  which includes digital rights management and copy-protection standards.  but  until the legal actions are resolved  experimentation with p2p cannot not happen  said michael weiss  president of streamcast networks. remembering the furore around vcrs when they first came out  mr weiss said:  old media always tries to stop new media.  when they can t stop it  they try to control it. then they figure out how to make money and they always make a lot of money.  once the courts decided that the vcr in itself was not an illegal technology  the film studios turned it into an extremely lucrative business. in august 2004  the san francisco-based us court of appeals ruled in favour of grokster and streamcast  two file-sharing networks. the court said they were essentially in the same position that sony was in the 1980s vcr battle  and said that the networks themselves could not be deemed as illegal.  p2p networks usually do not rely on dedicated servers for the transfer of files. instead it uses direct connections between computers - or clients. there are now many different types of p2p systems than work in different ways. p2p nets can be used to share any kind of file  like photos  free software  licensed music and any other digital content. the bbc has already decided to embrace the technology. it aims to offer most of its own programmes for download this year and it will use p2p technology to distribute them. the files would be locked seven days after a programme aired making rights management easier to control. but the technology is still demonised and misunderstood by many. the global entertainment industry says more than 2.6 billion copyrighted music files are downloaded every month  and about half a million films are downloaded a day. legal music download services  like apple itunes  napster  have rushed into the music marketplace to try and lure file-sharers away from free content. sales of legally-downloaded songs grew tenfold in 2004  with 200 million tracks bought online in the us and europe in 12 months  the ifpi reported this week. but such download services are very different from p2p networks  not least because of the financial aspect.  there are several money-spinning models that could turn p2p into a golden egg for commercial entertainment companies. paid-for-pass-along  in which firms receive money each time a file is shared  along with various drm solutions and advertiser-based options are all being considered.  we see there are going to be different models for commoditising p2p   said marc morgenstern  vice president of anti-piracy firm overpeer.   consumers are hungry for it and we will discover new models together   agreed mr morgenstern. but many net users will continue to ignore the entertainment industry s potential controlling grip on content and p2p technology by continuing to use it for their own creations. unsigned bands  for example  use p2p networks to distribute their music effectively  which also draws the attention of record companies looking for new artists to sign.  increasingly  what you are seeing on p2p is consumer-created content   said derek broes  from microsoft.  they will probably pay an increasing role in helping p2p spread   he said. looking into p2p s future  file sharing is just the beginning for p2p networks  as far as mr broes is concerned.  once some of these issues are resolved  you are going to see aggressive movement to protect content  but also in ways that are unimaginable now   he said.  file-sharing is the tip of the iceberg.
wales silent on grand slam talk rhys williams says wales are still not thinking of winning the grand slam despite a third six nations win.   that s the last thing on our minds at the moment   said williams  a second- half replacement in saturday s 24-18 win over france in paris.  we all realise how difficult a task it is to go up to scotland and beat them.  we ve come unstuck there a couple of times recently so our focus is on that game and we ll worry about ireland hopefully after we ve beaten scotland.  with captain gareth thomas ruled out of the rest of the campaign with a broken thumb  williams is vying for his first start in the championship so far.  kevin morgan is probably favourite to replace thomas at full-back  leaving williams and hal luscombe to battle for the right wing berth. a hamstring injury denied luscombe the opportunity to make a third successive start  but the dragons winger is expected to be fit for the trip to murrayfield on 13 march. hooker robin mcbryde is doubtful after picking up a knee injury in paris  but centre sonny parker and flanker colin charvis are set to recover from injury to be in contention for selection. said wales assistant coach scott johnson:  they ve worked through the weekend and the reports are a bit more positive.  so we re getting a couple back and that adds to the depth of the squad.  scotland secured their first win of the campaign on saturday by grinding out an 18-10 win over italy.  matt williams  side has shown little in attack  but johnson insisted the scots will be difficult opposition to break down.  italy are really brave opposition and sometimes it s very hard to win   he said.  so an ugly win can be just as effective as a 30 or 40 point victory.  scotland are a hard side and very underrated so we re not taking anything for granted.  we re not basking in the glory of winning our first three games. we ve got to be diligent in our preparation.  that s my job and we ve got to make sure we re focused.
holmes back on form in birmingham double olympic champion kelly holmes was back to her best as she comfortably won the 1 000m at the norwich union birmingham indoor grand prix.  the 34-year-old  running only her second competitive race of the season  shook off the rust to win in two minutes  35.39 seconds. but she is still undecided about competing in the european championships in madrid from 4-6 march.  i ll probably be entered and make my mind up at the last minute   she said.  my training hasn t gone as well as expected but i ve got two weeks to decide.  i need to take my time and make sure i feel good about what i m doing.  i felt very good here but with the crowd behind you  you feel like you can do anything.  american  was the eventual winner of the men s 60m race which almost ended in farce. three athletes were disqualified for false starting  including britain s mark lewis-francis  who was the first man guilty of coming out of his blocks too quickly. world 100m champion kim collins clinched second spot ahead of world 60m record holder and scott s training partner maurice greene. jason gardener s unbeaten run came to an end as he came fifth and he will need to improve if he is to defend his european title in madrid.  you can t win them all   said gardener afterwards.  and i was very disappointed as i know i m capable of doing better.  russian  was back on record-breaking form in the pole vault at the national indoor arena.  the olympic champion set a new world mark of 4.88m to break her own record - which she set just six days ago - and beat russian rival svetlana feofanova. it was isinbayeva s 11th world record - indoors or out - since july 2003.  i m so happy and i will do my best to break the 5m barrier soon   the 22-year-old told bbc sport. jamaica s  stormed to a personal best of 7.13 seconds to claim the women s 60m sprint. belgian kim gevaert  who will be one of the favourites for next month s european title  took second while american muna lee was third. there was disappointment for british pair jeanette kwakye and joice maduaka who finished seventh and eighth respectively.  jamaican  stretched her unbeaten record to 25 races as she effortlessly claimed the 200m. the olympic champion set a new indoor personal best of 22.38 seconds - the fastest time in the world this season.  fought off fellow briton tim abeyie to take the men s 200m in a personal best of 20.88.  continued her outstanding start to the season  beating a strong international field  which included two-time olympic 100m hurdles bronze medallist melissa morrison  to claim the women s 60m hurdles. the 25-year-old briton clocked 7.98 seconds while pre-european championships favourite russian irina shevchenko finished down in sixth. ethiopia s  failed in her bid to smash compatriot berhane adere s world 3 000m record but still won the event in emphatic style. the olympic 5 000m champion was inside record pace but dropped off over the final third  finishing in eight minutes  33.05 seconds - the fourth fastest time ever recorded for the event. britain s jo pavey bravely decided to go with defar as she strode away from the field and took second in a season s best 8:41.43. kenyan  also missed out on the indoor 1500m world record  which hicham el guerrouj has held for the last eight years.  lagat settled for silver behind el guerrouj in athens and was almost four seconds short of the moroccan s world best  clocking 3:35.27 in birmingham. and  was still struggling to find his form after the death of his fiancee this year. the olympic 10 000m champion had comfortably led the men s two mile race after his younger brother tariku had set the pace. but fellow ethiopian  appeared ominously on bekele s shoulder with two laps to go before surging past him at the bell to win in 8:14.28. jamaican  made the most of a blistering start to take the men s 400m title in 45.91 seconds. world indoor champion  alleyne francique  faded badly and finished in fourth while american duo jerry harris and james davis took second and third respectively. swede  showed her class in the long jump as she stole top spot from jade johnson with the very last jump of the competition. the olympic heptathlon gold medallist reached 6.66m to better johnson s mark of 6.52m - her second personal best inside a week.  i was quite surprised because i didn t think i d end up with second place   said johnson  who wore london s 2012 olympic bid slogan   back the bid   on her shorts.  but i m pleased and hopefully i ll get a bit better for the europeans. i really want to win a medal.   won the men s event with a season s best of 7.95m  taking the scalp of world indoor champion savante stringfellow of the usa.
bush website blocked outside us surfers outside the us have been unable to visit the official re-election site of president george w bush.  the blocking of browsers sited outside the us began in the early hours of monday morning. since then people outside the us trying to browse the site get a message saying they are not authorised to view it. the blocking does not appear to be due to an attack by vandals or malicious hackers  but as a result of a policy decision by the bush camp.  the international exclusion zone around georgewbush.com was spotted by net monitoring firm netcraft which keeps an eye on traffic patterns across many different sites. netcraft said that since the early hours of 25 october attempts to view the site through its monitoring stations in london  amsterdam and sydney failed.  by contrast netcraft s four monitoring stations in the us managed to view the site with no problems. the site can still be seen using anonymous proxy services that are based in the us. some web users in canada also report that they can browse the site. the pattern of traffic to the website suggests that the blocking was not due to an attack by vandals or politically motivated hackers. geographic blocking works because the numerical addresses that the net uses to organise itself are handed out on a regional basis. on 21 october  the george w bush website began using the services of a company called akamai to ensure that the pages  videos and other content on its site reaches visitors. mike prettejohn  president of netcraft  speculated that the blocking decision might have been taken to cut costs  and traffic  in the run-up to the election on 2 november. he said the site may see no reason to distribute content to people who will not be voting next week. managing traffic could also be a good way to ensure that the site stays working in the closing days of the election campaign. however  simply blocking non-us visitors also means that americans overseas are barred too. akamai declined to comment  saying it could not talk about customer websites.
rusedski angry over supplements greg rusedski has criticised the governing body of men s tennis for not releasing contamination-free supplements in time for the new season.  rusedski said:  i tried to order some but didn t receive any and i haven t got any yet.  you would think they would have been available in december as it can take two months for the body to respond.  this event comes in the hottest period of the year  so you would hope the stuff would be available for it.  the british number two escaped a possible ban last year when he persuaded a tribunal that a positive doping test was the result of contaminated atp supplements. in response  the atp struck a deal with pharmaceutical company glaxosmithkline to provide contamination-free drinks and nutritional bars for the men s tour.  david higdon  vice president of the atp  admitted:  i agree with greg.  i would have loved to have had these things available as soon as possible but it s a lot of work to make sure they have gone through rigorous testing.  the reality is though that the first two weeks of the tour are spread far and wide and part of the distribution agreement we had with gsk has an education component.  we weren t going to just drop these products out there without having a talk with the players about understanding how to use them.   the first chance we will get to do that is at the players meeting on the saturday before the australian open.  and rusedski  who takes on roger federer at the qatar open later on wednesday  conceded that the imminent changes will be beneficial.  the good thing is that there is now a 100% guarantee  so hopefully all this will never happen again   said rusedski.  hopefully after the australian open we won t have to discuss this any more.
da vinci code is  lousy history  the plot of an international bestseller that thousands of readers are likely to receive as a christmas present is  laughable   a clergyman has said.  the da vinci code claims jesus was not crucified  but married mary magdalene and died a normal death. it claims this was later covered up by the church. the bishop of durham  the rt rev dr tom wright  described the novel as a  great thriller  but  lousy history . the book has sold more than seven million copies worldwide. despite enjoying dan brown s conspiracy theory  the bishop said there was a lack of evidence to back up its claims.  writing his christmas message in the northern echo  the bishop said:  conspiracy theories are always fun - fun to invent  fun to read  fun to fantasise about.  dan brown is the best writer i ve come across in the genre  but anyone who knows anything about 1st century history will see that this underlying material is laughable.  a great deal of credible evidence proves the biblical version of jesus  life was true  according to the bishop.  the evidence for jesus and the origins of christianity is astonishingly good   he said.  we have literally a hundred times more early manuscripts for the gospels and letters in the new testament than we have for the main classical authors like cicero  virgil and tacitus.   historical research shows that they present a coherent and thoroughly credible picture of jesus  with all sorts of incidental details that fit the time when he lived  and don t fit the world of later legend.  brown s book has become a publishing phenomenon  consistently topping book charts in the uk and us. the da vinci code has been translated into 42 languages and has spawned its own cottage industry of publications  including guides on to how to read the book  rebuttals and counter claims. the book  which has become an international best-seller in little over two years  is set to be made into a film starring tom hanks.
s korean credit card firm rescued south korea s largest credit card firm has averted liquidation following a one trillion won ($960m; £499m) bail-out.  lg card had been threatened with collapse because of its huge debts but the firm s creditors and its former parent have stepped in to rescue it. a consortium of creditors and lg group  a family owned conglomerate  have each put up $480m to stabilise the firm. lg card has seven million customers and its collapse would have sent shockwaves through the country s economy.  the firm s creditors - which own 99% of lg card - have been trying to agree a deal to secure its future for several weeks. they took control of the company in january when it avoided bankruptcy only through a $4.5bn bail-out.  they had threatened to delist the company  a move which would have triggered massive debt redemptions and forced the company into bankruptcy  unless agreement was reached on its future funding.  lg card will not need any more financial aid after this   laah chong-gyu  executive director of korea development bank - one of the firm s creditors - said.  the agreement will see some 12 trillion won of debt converted into equity.  the purpose of the capital injection is to avoid delisting and the goal will be met   david kim  an analyst at sejong securities  told reuters. south korea s consumer credit market has been slowly recovering from a crisis in 2002 when a credit bubble burst and millions of consumers fell behind on their debt repayments. lg card returned to profit in september but needed further capital to avoid being thrown off the market. south korea s stock exchange can delist any firm if its debt exceeds its assets two years running.
u2 s desire to be number one u2  who have won three prestigious grammy awards for their hit vertigo  are stubbornly clinging to their status as one of the biggest bands in the world.  the most popular groups in the history of rock all have several things in common. the music must be inspired and appeal across generations and be distinctive  if not always groundbreaking. but such success is down to more than music. they have to be compelling performers  charismatic and intelligent enough to make good decisions and keep their feet on the ground. they also have to want it. they have to want to be the biggest band ever and not stop wanting it. the beatles had it  the rolling stones still have it  rem hold onto it and queen were it in a catsuit. and u2 have it in spades  and keep churning it out. their new album  how to dismantle an atomic bomb  comes 28 years after the schoolfriends got together in dublin and 17 years after the joshua tree cemented their place on the all-time rock a-list.  they may have lost some of the edginess and raw  youthful force that propelled them to the top  but they have lost none of the desire or ability to craft songs and albums.  vertigo  the first single from the new album  went straight into the uk singles chart at number one  knocking eminem off the top spot and giving them their 26th top 10 hit.  the challenge is to be bigger and bolder and better - to make records the whole world will listen to   bono recently said. drummer larry mullen jr echoed those sentiments:  we re very competitive - we want to be on the radio  have big singles. we don t want to be thought of as a veteran band.  the band have done  everything in their considerable powers  to ensure they remain the biggest band in the world  according to q magazine editor paul rees.   this makes them hugely determined and formidable.  he added:  they are equally determined to push themselves to make music that continues to stand up.  as such  they ve constantly re-invented and challenged themselves. they are  perhaps  alone as the only rock band that has got better with age.  the other key ingredient was the fact they were highly organised  mr rees said.  they do everything in the right way.  the group were born when mullen put an appeal for bandmates on a high school notice board  attracting fellow pupils paul hewson (bono  vocals)  adam clayton (bass)  david evans (the edge  guitar) and his brother dick.  dick evans soon dropped out and the four-piece were known as the feedback and the hype before settling on u2.  by 1978  they had won a talent contest and got noticed by a manager  paul mcguinness.  they were brilliant  but very coarse   mcguinness recently said.  in a way  they were doing exactly what they do now. only badly.  they struggled to attract record company attention  later being described as  pretty damn average  and  strange and eerie  by scouts who saw them live. they released two ireland-only singles  which topped the national charts in 1979 and 1980  leading to a deal with island and their debut album boy. the stadium-filling  anthemic sound was u2 s aim from the start  and their third album  war  saw them make the breakthrough on both sides of the atlantic  going to number one in the uk and 12 in the us. songs like sunday bloody sunday and new year s day brought success and an image as a political and spiritual band - which bono rejected as a cliche.  his stage performances - which included flag-waving  speaker-climbing and drum-throwing - earned him a reputation as an electric performer  and their appearance at 1985 s live aid is widely seen as sealing their global stardom.  in 1987  the joshua tree broke sales records and saw the band reach the height of their powers with hits including where the streets have no name  i still haven t found what i m looking for and with or without you. those songs took the band s epic  atmospheric sound to a simple  powerful and popular pinnacle. the end of the decade marked a crucial point for the band - they had reached the top but still yearned for new challenges and achievements. these came in the form of explorations of different branches of rock and forays into electronic dance music  plus wildly extravagant stage shows  while still trying to retain their mass appeal. the achtung baby album in 1991 was followed by zooropa  pop and their corresponding stadium tours  which featured giant olives  flying cars  live phone calls to the white house and bono s transformation into alter-egos the fly and macphisto. he was also building a parallel reputation - not always to the pleasure of his bandmates - as a campaigner on issues from global debt to aids. before the release of how to dismantle an atomic bomb  they had sold 125 million albums around the world. but they still want more.
uk helps raped rwandan women britain is to give a £4m grant to help women survivors of the rwandan genocide who were raped and often deliberately infected with hiv/aids.  an estimated 25 000 girls and women were raped during the 1994 genocide. about 800 000 tutsis and moderate hutus were killed by hutu militias after the assassination of an ethnic hutu leader. the five-year department for international development funding will enable more survivors to have access to anti-retroviral treatment.  the plight of the infected women was overshadowed for a long time. it was overshadowed by rwanda s emergence from the 100 days of slaughter  during which time the mass killings took place  and the women s fate was largely a taboo subject. but many of the women were widowed and they now not only have their own children to care for but  in many cases  orphans too.  as the women die  the number of rwanda s orphans rises. until recently  very few of the women have had access to anti-retroviral treatment. that is now starting to change. this funding is intended to make anti-retrovirals and other care available for some 2 500 women. mary kayitesi blewitt  founder of the survivors fund (surf)  one of the organisations through which the funds are being channelled  said it was a recognition  before it was too late  that the survivors should be a priority for help.
chinese exports rise 25% in 2004 exports from china leapt during 2004 over the previous year as the country continued to show breakneck growth.  the spurt put china s trade surplus - a sore point with some of its trading partners - at a six-year high. it may also increase pressure on china to relax the peg joining its currency  the yuan  with the weakening dollar. the figures released by the ministry of commerce come as china s tax chief confirmed that growth had topped 9% in 2004 for the second year in a row. state administration of taxation head xie xuren said a tightening of controls on tax evasion had combined with the rapid expansion to produce a 25.7% rise in tax revenues to 2.572 trillion yuan ($311bn; £165bn).  according to the ministry of commerce  china s exports totalled $63.8bn in december  taking the annual total up 35.4% to $593.4bn. with imports rising a similar amount  the deficit rose to $43.4bn. the increased tax take comes despite healthy tax rebates for many exporters totalling 420bn yuan in 2004  according to mr xie. china s exporting success has made the trade deficit of the united states soar even further and made trade with china a sensitive political issue in washington. the peg keeping the yuan around 8.30 to the dollar is often blamed by us lawmakers for job losses at home. a us report issued on tuesday on behalf of a congressionally-mandated panel said almost 1.5 million posts disappeared between 1989 and 2003. the pace accelerated in the final three years of the period  said the report for the us-china economic and security review commission  moving out of labour-intensive industries and into more hi-tech sectors. the us s overall trade deficit with china was $124bn in 2003  and is expected to rise to about $150bn for 2004.
mps to debate  euthanasia laws  mps are preparing to debate a bill which critics claim would legalise euthanasia  by the back door .  the bill would give legal force to  living wills   where people say they want medical treatment withheld if they become severely incapacitated. the mental capacity bill has broad support from charities who say it would give better safeguards over treatment. but christian groups say it could mean doctors withholding food and fluids even if they think it inappropriate.  ministers insist the mental capacity bill - for england and wales - would not change laws on assisted suicide and contains a presumption in favour of preserving life.  the bill would establish a legal presumption that everybody can make decisions about their own treatment unless proved otherwise. it would allow people to give somebody the power of attorney to make decisions on their behalf  which could be challenged by doctors. critics fear it could allow  killing by omission  through withdrawing treatment. an amendment to the bill - specifically preventing decisions that would bring about death - has been tabled by former conservative leader iain duncan smith. ninety one mps have signed a petition backing the amendment. mps could vote on it later on tuesday  during the bill s report stage debate. the bill will then go to a third reading and be debated in the lords  before becoming law.  the christian medical fellowship (cmf) and lawyers  christian fellowship (lcf) said the mental capacity bill would allow euthanasia by the  back door . peter saunders of the cmf said it believed advance refusals should be only advisory  not legally binding.  cmf is concerned that patients will make unwise and hasty advance decisions to refuse food and fluids without being properly informed about the diagnosis and the expected course their illness will take   he said.  the lcf s andrea williams said there were  too many loopholes that could be abused by unscrupulous doctors . ex-labour minister frank field told bbc two s newsnight programme there was a danger people would feel under pressure to  do away  with themselves so relatives could inherit their assets.  constitutional affairs minister david lammy said laws affecting 750 000 people with dementia needed updating. mr lammy told bbc news labour mps would not get a free vote as the law was being strengthened  not changed.  we are against euthanasia  we are against assisted suicide but we are in a situation now where people can make living wills and that has the force of the common law   he said.  doctors are saying they want more clarity. patients are saying they want more clarity.  the making decisions alliance  which includes the alzheimer s society  age concern  mencap and the national autistic society  said misunderstandings over the bill had to be cleared up.  it will not change the current law on euthanasia and will actually provide a series of better safeguards when decisions are made for people who lack capacity   the alliance said in a statement. the british medical association also backs the bill  saying it just gives incapacitated people the same rights as others. debate on legalising euthanasia has intensified in the uk because of cases like that of motor neurone patient diane pretty. she died two years ago after losing a legal battle to allow her husband to help her commit suicide.
mcconnell details scots wave toll at least three people from scotland died in the tsunami disaster and a further three are on the missing list  the first minister has told msps.  the figures came out during a statement by jack mcconnell to the scottish parliament on wednesday. he formally expressed scotland s sympathy for the victims of the indian ocean tidal wave which killed 150 000. mr mcconnell went on to promise that scotland would play its part in the reconstruction effort. he said the provisional figures on the dead and lost had been provided by the police.  mr mcconnell said the tragedy should persuade everyone to step up the fight against global poverty and change the world for the better. he said he was proud of the generous response of people in scotland to the disaster appeal  which is expected soon to top £20m. the first minister also praised scottish water for immediately flying bottled water and five large generators to the disaster zone. the scottish executive has seconded 11 staff to the aid agencies.  but he said scotland was  in it for the long term  with help planned for fishing communities  for children s services  and for the aid charities. he said 2005 must be the year that scotland showed clearly it cared for what happened to people elsewhere in the world  whether in asia or in africa. mr mcconnell went on to signal that the executive would play its part in the make poverty history campaign being mounted by a variety of aid charities  trade unions and churches in the run-up to the g8 summit in gleneagles in july. edinburgh architect  dominic stephenson  became the first scot to be confirmed as a victim of the asian tsunami. the 27-year-old was holidaying on the thai island of koh phi phi with eileen lee  24. she is still missing.
bridge could miss rest of season chelsea left-back wayne bridge could miss the rest of the season with a suspected broken ankle.  the england international  24  was hurt in an innocuous challenge with alan shearer during the londoners  fa cup defeat at newcastle on sunday.  we think it s a big injury   said jose mourinho  whose chelsea team this week meet barcelona in the champions league and liverpool in the carling cup final. william gallas and damien duff could also miss the barcelona game. france defender gallas and ireland winger duff both picked up their injuries in the closing stages of chelsea s 1-0 defeat at st james  park.  with bridge having gone off after mourinho used all three substitutes  those knocks plus carlo cudicini s red card meant chelsea finished the game with seven able-bodied players. cudicini would not have played against barcelona  but had been promised a game in the carling cup final  although he will now miss the cardiff showpiece through suspension. the manager is not planning to add any new names to his squad ahead of the trip to barcelona  even though he has few options to replace bridge at left-back.  celestine babayaro left the club in january  ironically to join newcastle  and although gallas has deputised at left-back before  he is struggling to be fit himself. it could be that paulo ferreira  usually a right-back  is switched to left-back with glen johnson  who ended the newcastle game in goal  playing on the right. youngsters ben hudell  joe keenan and sam tillen would be options should mourinho decide to call up a replacement  but it is unlikely he would risk an untried prospect in a champions league tie. bridge s injury also means mourinho  who reportedly wants to sign ashley cole from arsenal  will not have a specialist  senior left-back for the run-in to the season.   he (bridge) has no chance of playing against barcelona  probably will not play against liverpool (in the carling cup final) and maybe not for the rest of the season   he said.  the medical department will try to do everything to recover gallas and duff. we will have to wait and see  but i won t cry about injuries because we will have 11 players to play on tuesday.  shearer said he was unsure what caused bridge s injury.  i don t know what happened.  he said.  it was just a shame. i don t think we even touched each other.  by all accounts it s pretty serious. i went into the dressing-room after the game and wished him all the best.  mourinho  whose team are chasing three trophies  has already lost winger arjen robben to a serious injury.
consumers  snub portable video  consumers want music rather than movies while on the move  says a report.  produced by jupiter research the analysis of the portable media player market found only 13% of europeans want to watch video while out and about. by contrast  almost a third are interested in listening to music on a portable player such as an ipod. the firm said gadget makers should avoid hybrid devices and instead make sure music reproduction was as good as possible.  the report concluded that the driving force behind the growth of europe s portable player market was likely to be music  rather than films or any combination of the two. barely 5% of those questioned said they wanted a player that could play back both music and movies. only 7% wanted a player that could handle games and video.   dedicated music players are the only established digital media players in europe today despite their high prices   said ian fogg  jupiter analyst. mr fogg said although video players and smartphones were trying to cash in on this success they faced a tough job because of the compromises that had to be made when creating a dual-purpose device.  europeans care most about music playback   he said. the report showed that 27% of consumers asked are interested in portable music players. the research revealed that french  39%  and british  31%  consumers were most interested in music players. mr fogg said portable video players were likely to remain a niche product that would not be able to compete with devices dedicated to music playback.  a separate report by jupiter forecasts that the european digital music market will grow to 836m euros (£581m) by 2009. at the end of 2003  the market was worth 10.6m euros (£7.36m). digital music players will be behind this market growth said jupiter . apple s ipod was launched in october 2001  but the portable music player market has been growing steadily since the launch of the creative nomad jukebox in mid-2000. now consumers face an almost overwhelming choice of high-capacity portable music players that let them store every track on every cd that they own.
blair stresses prosperity goals tony blair says his party s next manifesto will be  unremittingly new labour  and aimed at producing  personal prosperity for all .  the prime minister is trying to draw a line under speculation over the state of his relationship with gordon brown with the speech in chatham  kent. he is saying that prosperity means both individual wealth and ensuring  radically improved  public services. he is also claiming labour is more ideologically united than ever. mr brown is currently touring africa after a week of facing questions about reports of his splits with downing street.  with the election widely predicted for may  angry labour mps this week warned mr blair and mr brown about the dangers of disunity. now mr blair is trying to put the focus on the substance of labour s platform for a third term in government. labour made low inflation  unemployment and mortgage rates the centrepiece of a new poster campaign this week.  and on thursday mr blair is saying:  i want to talk about the central purpose ofnew labour - which is to increase personal prosperity and well-being  not justfor a few but for all.  by prosperity i mean both the income and wealth of individuals and theirfamilies  and the opportunity and security available to them through radicallyimproved public services and a reformed welfare state.   the tories are trying to capitalise on the apparent feud at the top of government. on wednesday they unveiled a poster which pictured the prime minister and mr brown under the words  how can they fight crime when they are fighting each other   michael howard and frontbencher john redwood on thursday launched new plans to abolish hundreds of quangos. they say government is spending too much and lower taxes are needed to make britain more competitive.  the liberal democrats have also claimed infighting its obstructing good government. the latest speculation about relations between new labour s two most powerful figures came after the publication of a new book  brown s britain by robert preston. in it he alleges that mr blair told mr brown in 2003 he would step down as prime minister before the coming general election. the book claims the premier went back on his pledge after support from cabinet allies and suspicion that mr brown was manoeuvring against him. mr peston s book claimed that mr brown told mr blair:  there is nothing you could ever say to me now that i could ever believe.  on wednesday mr blair directly denied mr brown made that quote  and before he left for africa on tuesday the chancellor told reporters:  of course i trust the prime minister.
doors open at biggest gadget fair thousands of technology lovers and industry experts have gathered in las vegas for the annual consumer electronics show (ces).  the fair showcases the latest technologies and gadgets that will hit the shops in the next year. about 50 000 new products will be unveiled as the show unfolds. microsoft chief bill gates is to make a pre-show keynote speech on wednesday when he is expected to announce details of the next generation xbox.  the thrust of this year s show will be on technologies which put people in charge of multimedia content so they can store  listen to  and watch what they want on devices any time  anywhere. about 120 000 people are expected to attend the trade show which stretches over more than 1.5 million square feet. highlights will include the latest trends in digital imaging  storage technologies  thinner flat screen and high-definition tvs  wireless and portable technologies  gaming  and broadband technologies. the show also includes several speeches from key technology companies such as intel  microsoft  and hewlett packard among others.  the story this year remains all about digital and how that is completely transforming and revolutionising products and the way people interact with them   jeff joseph  from the consumer electronics association (cea) told the bbc news website.  it is about personalisation - taking your mp3 player and creating your own playlist  taking your digital video recorder and watch what you want to watch when - you are no longer at the whim of the broadcasters.   consumer electronics and gadgets had a phenomenal year in 2004  according to figures released by ces organisers  the cea  on tuesday. the gadget explosion signalled the strongest growth yet in the us in 2004. shipments of consumer electronics rose by almost 11% between 2003 and 2004. that trend is predicted to continue  according to cea analysts  with wholesale shipments of consumer technologies expected to grow by 11% again in 2005. the fastest-growing technologies in 2004 included blank dvd media  liquid crystal display (lcd) tvs  digital video recorders (dvrs)  and portable music players.  this year we will really begin to see that come to life in what we call place shifting - so if you have your pvr [personal video recorder] in your living room  you can move that content around the house.  some exhibitors will be showcasing how you can take that content anywhere   said mr joseph. he said the products which will be making waves in the next year will be about the  democratisation  of content - devices and technologies that will give people the freedom to do more with music  video  and images. there will also be more focus on the design of technologies  following the lead that apple s ipod made  with ease of use and good looks which appeal to a wider range of people a key concern.  the cea predicted that there would be several key technology trends to watch in the coming year. gaming would continue to thrive  especially on mobile devices  and would reach out to more diverse gamers such as women. games consoles sales have been declining  but the launch of next generation consoles  such as microsoft s xbox and playstation  could buoy up sales. although it has been widely predicted that mr gates would be showcasing the new xbox  some media reports have cast doubt on what he would be talking about in the keynote. some have suggested the announcement may take place at the games developers conference in the summer instead. with more than 52% of us homes expected to have home networks  the cea suggested hard drive boxes - or media servers - capable of storing thousands of images  video and audio files to be accessed through other devices around the home  will be more commonplace. portable devices that combine mobile telephony  digital music and video players  will also be more popular in 2005. their popularity will be driven by more multimedia content and services which will let people watch and listen to films  tv  and audio wherever they are. this means more storage technologies will be in demand  such as external hard drives  and flash memory like sd cards. ces runs officially from 6 to 9 january.
what now for british tennis  tim henman s decision to quit davis cup tennis has left the british team with a gargantuan void to fill.  the world number seven is tied for fourth among his countrymen for wins in the history of the tournament (he has 36 from his 50 rubbers). and great britain s last davis cup win without henman came against slovenia as far back as 1996. worse could follow  according to former british team member chris bailey. bailey told bbc sport:  after tim s announcement  i doubt greg rusedski will be that far behind him.  but without their top two  where does that leave british ambitions in the sport s premier team event  captain jeremy bates has singled out alex bogdanovic and andrew murray as potential replacements. the yugoslavian-born bogdanovic  though  is 184 places below henman in the world rankings and has played just two cup ties - winning one and losing the other.  murray  on the other hand  is 407th in the current atp entry list and yet to make his cup debut. but bailey does see some hope for the future. he said:  now we ve dropped down to the euro-africa zone  the time was right for him to step down and let the young guys come to the fore.  britain s next opponents  israel  are hardly likely to be quaking in their boots ahead of the 4-6 march match against a likely trio of bogdanovic  murray and the 187th-ranked arvind parmar. bailey said:  it will be tough for gb to move up  but there comes a time when our young players have to step up. this was always going to be inevitable with tim and greg s growing years.  i m confident about the future. i wouldn t lay money on us getting back into the world group next year  but i d imagine in five years time we ll be competing for the major honours.  of those lining up to replace henman  the 17-year-old murray  with four futures titles under his belt last year  looks the best long-term bet.  murray is the one that looks likeliest to take over tim s mantle   said bailey.  he has an enormous amount of self-confidence  judging by what he s said in the past.  bogdanovic  three years murray s senior  has had a more troubled time under britain s davis cup umbrella.  while murray has been marked out as britain s golden boy  bogdanovic was warned by the lawn tennis association for a lack of drive at the end of 2003. and bailey said:  despite that  alex is clearly talented as well  while arvind is another contender.  they re among the guys who have experienced the intensity of davis cup tennis - whether as players or on the sidelines.  the lta has always done an exceptional job of ensuring that.  now they ll finally get to play regularly in the cauldron of the cup. and i m confident that will springboard team gb to greater success.
brainwave  cap controls computer a team of us researchers has shown that controlling devices with the brain is a step closer.  four people  two of them partly paralysed wheelchair users  successfully moved a computer cursor while wearing a cap with 64 electrodes. previous research has shown that monkeys can control a computer with electrodes implanted into their brain. the new york team reported their findings in the proceedings of the national academy of sciences.  the results show that people can learn to use scalp-recorded electroencephalogram rhythms to control rapid and accurate movement of a cursor in two directions   said jonathan wolpaw and dennis mcfarlane. the research team  from new york state department of health and state university of new york in albany  said the research was another step towards people controlling wheelchairs or other electronic devices by thought.  the four people faced a large video screen wearing a special cap which  meant no surgery or implantation was needed.  brain activity produces electrical signals that can be read by electrodes. complex algorithms then translate those signals into instructions to direct the computer. such brain activity does not require the use of any nerves of muscles  so people with stroke or spinal cord injuries could use the cap effectively.  the impressive non-invasive multidimensional control achieved in the present study suggests that a non-invasive brain control interface could support clinically useful operation of a robotic arm  a motorised wheelchair or a neuroprosthesis   said the researchers. the four volunteers also showed that they could get better at controlling the cursor the more times they tried. although the two partially-paralysed people performed better overall  the researchers said this could be because their brains were more used to adapting or that they were simply more motivated. it is not the first time researchers have had this sort of success in brain-control experiments. some teams have used eye motion and other recording techniques. earlier this year  a team at the mit media labs europe demonstrated a wireless cap which read brain waves to control a computer character.
no re-draft  for eu patent law a proposed european law on software patents will not be re-drafted by the european commission (ec) despite requests by meps.  the law is proving controversial and has been in limbo for a year. some major tech firms say it is needed to protect inventions  while others fear it will hurt smaller tech firms. the ec says the council of ministers will adopt a draft version that was agreed upon last may but said it would review  all aspects of the directive . the directive is intended to offer patent protection to inventions that use software to achieve their effect  in other words   computer implemented invention .  in a letter  ec president jos&#233; manuel barroso told the president of the european parliament  josep borrell  that the commission  did not intend to refer a new proposal to the parliament and the council (of ministers)  as it had supported the agreement reached by ministers in may 2004.  if the european council agrees on the draft directive it will then return for a second reading at the european parliament. but that will not guarantee that the directive will become law - instead it will probably mean further delays and controversy over the directive. most eu legislation now needs the approval of both parliament and the council of ministers before it becomes law. french green mep alain lipietz warned two weeks ago that if the commission ignored the parliament s request it would be an  insult  to the assembly. he said that the parliament would then reject the council s version of the legislation as part of the final or conciliation stage of the decision procedure. in the us  the patenting of computer programs and internet business methods is permitted.  this means that the us-based amazon.com holds a patent for its  one-click shopping  service  for example. critics are concerned that the directive could lead to a similar model happening in europe. this  they fear  could hurt small software developers because they do not have the legal and financial might of larger companies if they had to fight patent legal action in court. supporters say current laws are inefficient and it would serve to even up a playing field without bringing eu laws in line with the us.
pop band busted to  take a break  chart-topping pop band busted have confirmed that they plan to  take a break   following rumours that they were on the verge of splitting.  a statement from the band s record company universal said frontman charlie simpson planned to spend some time working with his other band  fightstar. however they said that busted would  reconvene in due course . the band have had eight top three hits  including four number ones  since they first hit the charts in 2002. their singles include what i go to school for  year 3000  crashed the wedding  you said no  and who s david   the band  which also includes members matt jay and james bourne  made the top ten with their self-titled debut album  as well as the follow-up  a present for everyone  in 2003. they won best pop act and best breakthrough act at the 2004 brit awards and were nominated for best british group. most recently they topped the charts with the theme from the live-action film version of thunderbirds  which was voted record of the year on the itv1 show. the band have capitalised on a craze for artists playing catchy pop music with rock overtones. the trio are seen as an alternative to more manufactured artists who are not considered credible musicians because they do not write their own songs or play their own instruments. however  recent rumours have suggested that simpson has been wanting to quit the band to focus on fightstar. he now plans to take fightstar on tour.
hobbit picture  four years away  lord of the rings director peter jackson has said that it will be up to four years before he starts work on a film version of the hobbit.  the oscar winner said on a visit to sydney there was a  desire  to make it  but not before lengthy negotiations.  i think it s gonna be a lot of lawyers sitting in a room trying to thrash out a deal before it will ever happen   said the new zealander. the rights to jrr tolkien s book are split between two major film studios. jackson  who is currently filming a remake of hollywood classic king kong  said he thought that the sale of mgm studios to the sony corporation would cast further uncertainty on the project. the 43-year-old was in the australian city to visit a lord of the rings exhibition  which has attracted 140 000 visitors since it opened in december.  the film-maker recently sued film company new line cinema for undisclosed damages over alleged withheld profits and lost revenue from the first part of the middle earth trilogy. the fellowship of the ring from 2001 went on to make worldwide profits of $291 million (£152 million). jackson is thought to have secured the most lucrative film directing deal in history to remake king kong  which is currently in production in wellington. the picture  which stars naomi watts and oscar winner adrien brody  is due to be released in december. jackson has also committed to making a film version of lovely bones  based on the best-selling book by alice sebold.
davenport hits out at wimbledon world number one lindsay davenport has criticised wimbledon over the issue of equal prize money for women.  reacting to a disputed comment by all england club chairman tim phillips  the american said:  i think it is highly insulting if prize money is taken away.  somebody  i think it was mr phillips  said they won t have money for flowers at wimbledon. that s insulting.  an all england club spokesperson denied phillips made the remark  insisting:  he definitely didn t say it.  the statement added:  it was said by someone else and was a humorous aside at the end of a radio interview when the conversation had moved to talking about the wimbledon grounds.   davenport was speaking following the announcement that this week s dubai duty free event will join the us and australian opens in offering equal prize money for women.  you hear about women playing only three sets while men play five   said daveport.  and the best women are never going to beat the best men.  but it s a different game you go to watch with the women - it doesn t make it better or worse.  hopefully we will be able to change people s minds.   serena williams  who is also in dubai  added:  i m obviously for equal prize money.  women s tennis is exciting. men s tennis is exciting as well  but the women have it right now.  if you are bringing in the spectators you should be able to reap what everyone else is able to reap.
mitsubishi in peugeot link talks trouble-hit mitsubishi motors is in talks with french carmaker psa peugeot citroen about a possible alliance.  on tuesday mitsubishi  the only major japanese car firm in the red  confirmed earlier reports of negotiations. but a spokesman refused to comment on speculation that mitsubishi could end up building cars for psa and perhaps its japanese rival nissan. mitsubishi has been hit by a recall scandal and the withdrawal of support from shareholder daimlerchrysler. the us-german firm  once a majority shareholder  decided last april to stop providing financial backing. mitsubishi s sales have slid 41% in the past year  catalysed by the revelation that the company had systematically been hiding records of faults and then secretly repairing vehicles. mitsubishi is due to unveil a recovery plan later in january. analysts said that alliances with other carmakers would be a necessary part of whatever it came up with  not least because its own slow sales have left its manufacturing capacity under-used.
springer criticises opera musical talk show host jerry springer  whose programme inspired the controversial opera shown by the bbc  has said he would not have written it himself.  the bbc received 47 000 complaints before the musical was broadcast  and protesters demonstrated outside bbc buildings across the uk. springer helped launch the west end show and attended the opening night.  i wouldn t have written it. i don t believe in making fun of other religions   he said.  the tv host said he understood how people could have thought the musical had gone too far.  you know  on our tv show if people use inappropriate language we bleep it out  if there s nudity we cover it up  so that viewers at home don t get to see any of this   he said.  asked whether he thought the bbc should have screened the controversial musical he said:  i don t know if they should have had it on television but  good lord  if you don t like what s on television  that s why god gave us remote controls.  my show is about dysfunctional people and i defy anyone to watch the show and suggest to me the people on it aren t to some degree dysfunctional.    if i did a show about the war in iraq  it wouldn t make me a warmonger  i would just be doing my job to report on the war.  in the case of my show  it s my job to report on the dysfunctions that take place in society.  the british-born presenter is in london to speak at a fundraising dinner for the united jewish israel appeal. the dinner  on tuesday  is expected to be attended by more than 800 guests.
middlesbrough 2-2 charlton a late header by teenager danny graham earned middlesbrough a battling draw with charlton at the riverside.  matt holland had put the visitors ahead in the 14th minute after his shot took a deflection off franck queudrue. but middlesbrough peppered the charlton goal after the break and chris riggott stroked home the equaliser. shaun bartlett s strike put charlton back in front but that lead lasted just six minutes before graham rushed onto queudrue s pass to head home. the match burst to life from the whistle and charlton defender hermann hreidarsson had sight of an open goal after just six minutes. hreidarsson received danny murphy s free-kick from the right but he crashed his free header wide of the far post. the iceland international looked such a danger the boro bench could be heard issuing frantic instructions to mark him.  charlton s early pressure paid off when bartlett received a long ball from talal el karkouri in the box and laid it off to holland who buried his right-footed strike. szilard nemeth  recalled in place of joseph-desire job  was twice denied his chance to get middlesbrough back on level terms by dean kiely. the striker played a great one-two with jimmy floyd hasselbaink only to see kiely get down well to smother his shot before directing a header straight into the keeper s arms. boro had plenty of time on the ball but the addicks comfortably mopped up the pressure - with kiely tipping a hasselbaink header over the bar - to take their lead into half-time.  it was all one-way traffic after the break at the riverside as middlesbrough poured forward and kiely even saved hreidarsson s blushes when he palmed the ball away to prevent a charlton own goal. but the addicks keeper could do nothing about riggott s equaliser in the 74th minute. the boro defender looked suspiciously offside as he got on the end of gareth southgate s misdirected effort  but despite the charlton protests his goal stood. the addicks did not let their heads drop and bartlett left the boro defence standing  picking up hreidarsson s cross to easily sink his right-footed strike. but substitute graham was on hand to grab a share of the points for the home side. the 19-year-old striker nodding home the equaliser - and his first premiership goal - with five minutes left on the clock.   i felt we did enough to win the game even though the first half was lacklustre.  we dominated after the break  the players showed a fantastic response and we should have gone on to win.  but for (charlton goalkeeper) dean kiely  who made three tremendous saves  we could have scored five or six.    to take the lead and then to get penned back  it feels a little bit like a defeat   admitted kiely.  we were winning but middlesbrough kept knocking on the door. but we stood up and credit to us we didn t capitulate.  we ll kick on now. our short-term ambition is to progress from the seventh place finish from last year.   nash  reiziger (graham 82)  riggott  southgate  queudrue  parlour (job 86)  doriva  nemeth (parnaby 87)  zenden  downing  hasselbaink.  subs not used: cooper  knight.  riggott 74  graham 86.  kiely  hreidarsson  perry  el karkouri  young  konchesky  murphy (euell 78)  holland  kishishev  thomas (johansson 72)  bartlett.  subs not used: fish  jeffers  andersen.  konchesky  hreidarsson  perry.  holland 14  bartlett 80.  29 603  m riley (w yorkshire).
fannie mae  should restate books  us mortgage company fannie mae should restate its earnings  a move that is likely to put a billion-dollar dent in its accounts  watchdogs have said.  the securities & exchange commission accused fannie mae of using techniques that  did not comply in material respects  with accounting standards. fannie mae last month warned that some records were incorrect. the other main us mortgage firm freddie mac restated earnings by $5bn (£2.6bn) last year after a probe of its books. the sec s comments are likely to increase pressure on congress to strengthen supervision of fannie mae and freddie mac.  the two firms are key parts of the us financial system and effectively underwrite the mortgage market  financing nearly half of all american house purchases and dealing actively in bonds and other financial instruments. the investigation of freddie mac in june 2003 sparked concerns about the wider health of the industry and raised questionsmarks over the role of the office of federal housing enterprise oversight (ofheo)  the industry s main regulator. having been pricked into action  the ofheo turned its attention to fannie may and in september this year said that the firm had tweaked its books to spread earnings more smoothly across quarters and play down the amount of risk it had taken on. the sec found similar problems. the watchdog s chief accountant donald nicolaisen said that  fannie mae s methodology of assessing  measuring and documenting hedge ineffectiveness was inadequate and was not supported  by generally accepted accounting principles.
solskjaer raises hopes of return manchester united striker ole gunnar solskjaer said he hoped to return next season following a career-threatening injury to his right knee.  the 31-year-old norway international had surgery in sweden in august to transplant cartilage into the joint.  i m in no doubt that i ll play again   solskjaer told aftenposten daily.  the problem will be the speed but we re talking about eight months  time. it s going as it should with the knee. i m slavishly following a programme.  solskjaer last played for united as a late substitute in may s fa cup final win over millwall. his contract with united runs out in 2006  by which time he will have been at the premier league club for 10 years.
low-budget film wins cesar a film that follows a group of alienated youth in a paris suburb as they prepare to perform an 18th century play has won france s top cinema award.  l esquive earned a cesar prize for its director  tunisian-born abdellatif kechiche  and its young star  the 18-year-old actress sara forestier. it saw off competition from big-budget french epic  a very long engagement  and the box-office hit  the chorus. us film lost in translation won the award for best foreign feature. the wistful romantic comedy directed by sofia coppola has already won several awards  including an oscar for best screenplay in 2004. its late release in france made it a contender for this year s cesars.  the low-budget l esquive depicts the travails of a group of youth getting ready to perform a school play by the 18th-century dramatist  marivaux. the actors are mostly amateurs and the action is set in the impoverished suburbs of paris  home to thousands of immigrants from north africa and their children. kechiche said he made the film because he  wanted to show people we don t normally see at the cinema . a very long engagement  a world war i drama featuring audrey tautou  won five cesar awards. the chorus  a film about a schoolteacher who introduces an unruly classroom to the pleasures of classical singing  won two awards - for best music and best sound. us actor will smith  who won an honorary award at the ceremony  thanked his family and his  hero   nelson mandela  in his speech.
home phones face unclear future the fixed line phone in your home could soon be an endangered species.  research by handset maker nokia shows that more and more people are using their mobile phone for every call they make or take. according to the study  more than 45 million people in the uk  germany  us and south korea now only use a mobile. it showed that people keep their fixed line phone because call charges are lower  but most of those questioned said the future was definitely mobile.  the nokia-sponsored research showed that mobiles and fixed phones were used for different purposes. home phones were used for longer calls but conversations on mobiles tended to be shorter  between mobiles and to friends. in the uk 69% of those questioned said they turned to their fixed phone because it was still cheaper to use than a mobile. however  when pressed few could say with accuracy how tariffs on fixed and mobile phones compared. in the us and germany many of those interviewed said they used the fixed phone because it was more reliable than a mobile handset and let them get access to the net at relatively high speeds. in all the countries where interviews were carried out  older people were more likely to use a fixed line phone more than a mobile. women aged 50 or above almost never use a mobile phone  the research found.  the move to mobile was most pronounced in south korea where 65% of those questioned said they already make most of their calls from a mobile. 18% said they would not get a landline if they moved house.  many of those questioned said they had an emotional connection to their fixed phone that drew on its position in the home and the  cosiness  of making a call there. nokia said these findings had implications for mobile operators who must work hard to ensure that mobiles are seen as cheap  reliable and providing good call quality. the survey also showed that it is not just voice calls that are going wireless. some of those questioned said they were looking to use a mobile or wireless service to get net access within the next couple of years. polling firm mori interviewed more than 6 000 people in the uk  us  germany and south korea for the survey.
ireland 17-12 south africa ronan o gara scored all ireland s points as the home side claimed only their second ever win over south africa on an emotional day at lansdowne road.  o gara s first-half try  poached after a quick tap-penalty  helped the irish to a 8-3 lead at half-time. three further o gara penalties extended ireland s lead to 17-6 as the game entered the final quarter. two percy montgomery penalties set up a frantic finish but ireland held out to claim a famous victory. ireland began strongly and were never led  but the match was tense and closely fought throughout. aware of the threat posed by the south africans  ireland pressed hard from the outset  and played some impressive rugby while searching for a breakthrough. early on  denis hickie thought he was in for a try after a delightful backline move but shane horgan s pass was adjudged to have gone forward by referee paul honiss.  ireland continued to press and they showed their intent by opting for a line-out in the 19th minute when three straight-forward points were on offer. another south african infringement a minute later led to ireland s first points - o gara took a quick tap-penalty and charged over the opposition line for an irish try. the springboks could feel hard done by as captain john smit had his back to the play when o gara pounced after referee honiss had told the skipper to warn his own players after consistent infringements. stung by the score  the south africans almost replied with a try of their own within 60 seconds with geordan murphy s ankle-tap tackle denying a certain try for percy montgomery. however  the springboks did win a penalty a minute later which montgomery easily slotted to cut ireland s lead to 5-3.  ireland got out of jail when the south africans had a three-to-one overlap near the irish line only to waste the chance. after the sustained springboks pressure  the irish produced an attack of their own in the 34th minute which culminated with o gara s clever drop-goal to restore his side s lead to five points which remained the margin at half-time. sustained irish pressure immediately after half-time was rewarded by another o gara penalty. however  montgomery responded quickly by slotting over a superb penalty from near the right touchline to cut ireland s lead to five points again. montgomery then burst through the irish defence in the 48th minute and it took a superb girvan dempsey tackle to prevent a try. the south africans suffered a double-blow in the 52nd minute when schalk burger was sin-binned for the second week in a row after killing the ball and o gara punished the transgression by notching another penalty.  in the 61st minute  hickie was left frustrated by a poor pass from girvan dempsey as a chance to seal the match was wasted. however  a late tackle on brian o driscoll enabled o gara to notch another penalty in the 63rd minute which extended ireland s lead to 17-6. however  two montgomery penalties had ireland s lead in peril again as the springboks closed to within five points with seven minutes remaining. south africa produced a huge effort in the closing minutes but ireland held on to claim a deserved victory.  g dempsey; g murphy  b o driscoll (capt)  s horgan  d hickie; r o gara  p stringer; r corrigan  s byrne  j hayes  m o kelly  p o connell  s easterby  j o connor  a foley.  f sheahan  m horan  d o callaghan  e miller  g easterby  d humphreys  k maggs.  : p montgomery; b paulse  m joubert  de wet barry  a willemse  j van der westhuyzen; f du preez; o du randt  j smit (captain)  e andrews  b botha  v matfield  s burger  aj venter  j van niekerk.  : h shimange  cj van der linde  g britz  d rossouw  m claassens  j de villiers  g du toit/j fourie.  paul honiss (new zealand)
yelling takes cardiff hat-trick european cross-country champion hayley yelling completed a hat-trick of wins in the reebok cardiff cross challenge in bute park on sunday afternoon.  the part-time maths teacher beat irish international jolene byrne by 40 metres in the six-kilometre race. another great britain international  louise damen  finished third as part of the contingent representing england. peter riley  who secured bronze for the gb men s team at last month s european championships  won the men s 9km race. riley  representing england  moved away over the last two kilometres to win by 25 metres from ireland s gary murray. glynn tromans - the reigning uk inter-countries and england cross-country champion - came in third place as he continues his comeback from a five-month injury lay-off.
snow patrol feted at irish awards snow patrol were the big winners in ireland s top music honours  the meteor awards  picking up accolades for best irish band and album on thursday.  the belfast-born  glasgow-based band collected the prizes at the ceremony at dublin s point theatre. westlife won the award for best irish pop act  voted for by the public  beating former member brian mcfadden. franz ferdinand picked up best international band and album while paddy casey collected best irish male. singer-songwriter casey beat brian mcfadden and damien rice. juliette turner was named best irish female.  in the international categories  morrissey beat eminem  usher and robbie williams to best male while pj harvey pipped kylie minogue  joss stone  anastacia and natasha bedingfield to the female crown. the 8 000 fans at the ceremony were treated to performances from us rapper snoop dogg  brian mcfadden with delta goodrem and the thrills featuring rolling stones star ronnie wood. snow patrol s success came after a year in which they made a chart breakthrough with their third album final straw.  i think a lot of bands should go through a wee bit of a kicking before the make a success   singer gary lightbody and drummer jonny quinn said.  it has been good for us  but also hard for us over the past six years.  snow patrol will support u2 on their european tour later this year - but u2 were not nominated for best irish band and album.
collins calls for chambers return world 100m champion kim collins says suspended sprinter dwain chambers should be allowed to compete in the olympics again.  chambers was banned for two years after testing positive for the anabolic steroid thg and his suspension runs out in november this year. but collins says the british olympic association should reverse the decision to ban him from the olympics for life.  it was too harsh   collins told radio five live.  they should reconsider.  chambers has been in america learning american football but has not ruled out a return to the track. collins added:  he is a great guy and i have never had any problems with him. we are friends.  i would like to see dwain come back and compete again. he is a good person.  even though he made a mistake he understands what he did and should be given a chance once more.
china continues rapid growth china s economy has expanded by a breakneck 9.5% during 2004  faster than predicted and well above 2003 s 9.1%.  the news may mean more limits on investment and lending as beijing tries to take the economy off the boil. china has sucked in raw materials and energy to feed its expansion  which could have knock-on effects on the rest of the world if it overheats. but officials pointed out that industrial growth had slowed  with services providing much of the impetus. growth in industrial output - the main target of government efforts to impose curbs on credit and investments - was 11.5% in 2004  down from 17% the previous year.  still  consumer prices - at 2.4% - rose faster than in 2004  adding to concern that a sharp rise in producer prices of 7.1% could stoke inflation. and overall investment in fixed assets was still high  up 21.3% from the previous year - although some way off the peak of 43% seen in the first quarter of 2004. the result could be higher interest rates. china raised rates by 0.27 percentage points to 5.8% - its first hike in nine years - in october 2004.  despite the apparent rebalancing of the economy the overall growth picture remains strong  economists said.  there is no sign of a slowdown in 2005   said tim congdon  economist at ing barings.  china s economy is not only gathering speed thanks to domestic demand  but also from soaring sales overseas. figures released earlier this year showed exports at a six-year high in 2004  up 35%. part of the impetus comes from the relative cheapness of the yuan  china s currency. the government keeps it pegged close to a rate of 8.28 to the us dollar  - much to the chagrin of many us lawmakers who blame china for lost jobs and competitiveness. despite urging to ease the peg  officials insist they are a long way from ready to make a shift to a more market-set rate.  we need a good and feasible plan and formulating such a plan also needs time   national bureau of statistics chief li deshui told reuters.  those who hope to make a fortune by speculating on a renminbi revaluation will not succeed in making a profit.
ivanovic seals canberra victory serbia s ana ivanovic captured her first wta title with a straight-sets victory over hungarian melinda czink in the final of the canberra classic.  the 17-year-old took 83 minutes to take the match 7-5 6-1. ivanovic beat czink in the last round of qualifying but the hungarian made the main draw as a lucky loser after katarina srebotnik withdrew injured. ivanovic said:  i was really nervous in the beginning  but i pulled through and didn t do too much wrong.  a junior wimbledon finalist last year  she added:  it s my first wta title  and to win it has really given me more energy to practice and improve.  ivanovic will play 32nd seed iveta benesova of the czech republic in the first round.said of the australian open in melbourne.
stars pay tribute to actor davis hollywood stars including spike lee  burt reynolds and oscar nominee alan alda have paid tribute to actor ossie davis at a funeral in new york.  veteran star ossie davis  a well-known civil rights activist  died in miami at the age of 87 on 4 february 2005. friends and family  including actress ruby dee his wife of 56 years  gathered at the riverside church on saturday. also present at the service was former us president bill clinton and singer harry belafonte  who gave the eulogy.  he would have been a very good president of the united states   said mr clinton.  like most of you here  he gave more to me than i gave to him.   the 87-year-old was found dead last weekend in his hotel room in florida  where he was making a film. police said that he appeared to have died of natural causes. davis made his acting debut in 1950 in no way out starring sidney poiter. he frequently collaborated with director spike lee  starring in seven lee films including jungle fever  do the right thing and malcolm x. attallah shabazz  the daughter of activist malcolm x  recalled the famous eulogy delivered by davis at her father s funeral.  harlem has come to bid farewell to one of its finest hopes   she said  quoting the man she knew as uncle ossie.  ditto.   ossie was my hero  and he still is   said aviator star alan alda  a family friend for over forty years.  ossie was a thing of beauty.    i want so badly someday to have his dignity - a little of it anyway   added burt reynolds  davis s co-star in the 90s tv comedy evening shade. before the midday funeral  scores of harlem residents formed a queue outside the church to pay their respects to davis.  it is hard to fathom that we will no longer be able to call on his wisdom  his humour  his loyalty and his moral strength to guide us in the choices that are yet to be made and the battles that are yet to be fought   said belafonte  himself an ardent civil rights activist who had been friends with davis for over 60 years.  but how fortunate we were to have him as long as we did.
spam e-mails tempt net shoppers computer users across the world continue to ignore security warnings about spam e-mails and are being lured into buying goods  a report suggests.  more than a quarter have bought software through spam e-mails and 24% have bought clothes or jewellery. as well as profiting from selling goods or services and driving advertising traffic  organised crime rings can use spam to glean personal information. the business software alliance (bsa) warned that people should  stay alert .  many online consumers don t consider the true motives of spammers   said mike newton  a spokesperson for the bsa which commissioned the survey.   by selling software that appears to be legitimate in genuine looking packaging or through sophisticated websites  spammers are hiding spyware without consumers  knowledge.  once the software is installed on pcs and networks  information that is given over the internet can be obtained and abused.   the results also showed that the proportion of people reading - or admitting to reading - and taking advantage of adult entertainment spam e-mails is low  at one in 10. the research  which covered 6 000 people in six countries and their attitudes towards junk e-mails  revealed that brazilians were the most likely to read spam. a third of them read unsolicited junk e-mail and 66% buy goods or services after receiving spam.  the french were the second most likely to buy something (48%)  with 44% of britons taking advantage of products and services. this was despite 38% of people in all countries being worried about their net security because of the amount of spam they get. more than a third of respondents said they were concerned that spam e-mails contained viruses or programs that attempted to collect personal information.  both industry and the media have helped to raise awareness of the issues that surround illegitimate e-mail  helping to reduce the potential financial damage and nuisance from phishing attacks and spoof websites   said william plante  director of corporate security and fraud protection at security firm symantec.  at the same time  consumers need to continue exercising caution and protect themselves from harm with a mixture of spam filters  spyware detection software and sound judgement.
christmas sales worst since 1981 uk retail sales fell in december  failing to meet expectations and making it by some counts the worst christmas since 1981.  retail sales dropped by 1% on the month in december  after a 0.6% rise in november  the office for national statistics (ons) said. the ons revised the annual 2004 rate of growth down from the 5.9% estimated in november to 3.2%. a number of retailers have already reported poor figures for december. clothing retailers and non-specialist stores were the worst hit with only internet retailers showing any significant growth  according to the ons.  the last time retailers endured a tougher christmas was 23 years previously  when sales plunged 1.7%.  the ons echoed an earlier caution from bank of england governor mervyn king not to read too much into the poor december figures. some analysts put a positive gloss on the figures  pointing out that the non-seasonally-adjusted figures showed a performance comparable with 2003. the november-december jump last year was roughly comparable with recent averages  although some way below the serious booms seen in the 1990s. and figures for retail volume outperformed measures of actual spending  an indication that consumers are looking for bargains  and retailers are cutting their prices.  however  reports from some high street retailers highlight the weakness of the sector. morrisons  woolworths  house of fraser  marks & spencer and big food all said that the festive period was disappointing.  and a british retail consortium survey found that christmas 2004 was the worst for 10 years. yet  other retailers - including hmv  monsoon  jessops  body shop and tesco - reported that festive sales were well up on last year. investec chief economist philip shaw said he did not expect the poor retail figures to have any immediate effect on interest rates.  the retail sales figures are very weak  but as bank of england governor mervyn king indicated last night  you don t really get an accurate impression of christmas trading until about easter   said mr shaw.  our view is the bank of england will keep its powder dry and wait to see the big picture.
south african car demand surges car manufacturers with plants in south africa  including bmw  general motors  toyota and volkswagen  have seen a surge in demand during 2004.  new vehicle sales jumped 22% to 449 603 from a year earlier  the national association of automobile manufacturers of south africa (naamsa) said. strong economic growth and low interest rates have driven demand  and analysts expect the trend to continue. naamsa said it expects sales to top 500 000 in 2005. during 2004  south africa was one of the best performing markets internationally  for car sales  naamsa said. while domestic demand is set to continue to enjoy rapid growth  foreign sales could come under pressure  analysts said. the vehicle industry accounts for about 13% of south africa s total exports. however  the world auto market has its problems and analysts warn that overcapacity and the strength of the rand could hit exports.
uk economy facing  major risks  the uk manufacturing sector will continue to face  serious challenges  over the next two years  the british chamber of commerce (bcc) has said.  the group s quarterly survey of companies found exports had picked up in the last three months of 2004 to their best levels in eight years. the rise came despite exchange rates being cited as a major concern. however  the bcc found the whole uk economy still faced  major risks  and warned that growth is set to slow. it recently forecast economic growth will slow from more than 3% in 2004 to a little below 2.5% in both 2005 and 2006.  manufacturers  domestic sales growth fell back slightly in the quarter  the survey of 5 196 firms found. employment in manufacturing also fell and job expectations were at their lowest level for a year.   despite some positive news for the export sector  there are worrying signs for manufacturing   the bcc said.  these results reinforce our concern over the sector s persistent inability to sustain recovery.  the outlook for the service sector was  uncertain  despite an increase in exports and orders over the quarter  the bcc noted.  the bcc found confidence increased in the quarter across both the manufacturing and service sectors although overall it failed to reach the levels at the start of 2004. the reduced threat of interest rate increases had contributed to improved confidence  it said. the bank of england raised interest rates five times between november 2003 and august last year. but rates have been kept on hold since then amid signs of falling consumer confidence and a slowdown in output.  the pressure on costs and margins  the relentless increase in regulations  and the threat of higher taxes remain serious problems   bcc director general david frost said.  while consumer spending is set to decelerate significantly over the next 12-18 months  it is unlikely that investment and exports will rise sufficiently strongly to pick up the slack.
blogs take on the mainstream web logs or blogs are everywhere  with at least an estimated five million on the web and that number is set to grow.  these online diaries come in many shapes and styles  ranging from people willing to sharing their views  pictures and links  to companies interested in another way of reaching their customers. but this year the focus has been on blogs which cast a critical eye over news events  often writing about issues ignored by the big media or offering an eye-witness account of events. most blogs may have only a small readership  but communication experts say they have provided an avenue for people to have a say in the world of politics. the most well-known examples include iraqi salam pax s accounts of the us-led war  former iranian vice-president mohammad ali abtahi exclusive insight into the islamic republic s government  and the highs and lows of the recent us election campaign. there are already websites pulling together these first-hand reporting accounts heralded by blogs  like wikinews.com  launched last november.  the blogging movement has been building up for many years.  andrew nachison  director of the media center  a us-based think-tank that studies media  technology and society  highlights the us presidential race as a possible turning point for blogs.  you could look at that as a moment when audiences exercised a new form of power  to choose among many more sources of information than they have never had before   he says.  and blogs were a key part of that transformation.  among them were blogs carrying picture messages  saying  we are sorry  for george w bush s victory and the responses from his supporters. mr nachison argues blogs have become independent sources for images and ideas that circumvent traditional sources of news and information such as newspapers  tv and radio.  we have to acknowledge that in all of these cases  mainstream media actually plays a role in the discussion and the distribution of these ideas   he told the bbc news website.  but they followed the story  they didn t lead it.   some parts of the so-called traditional media have expressed concerns about this emerging competitor  raising questions about the journalistic value of blogs.  others  like the french newspaper le monde  have applied a different strategy  offering blogs as part of its content.  i don t think the mission and role of journalism is threatened. it is in transition  as society itself is in transition   says mr nachison. however  he agrees with other experts like the linguist and political analyst noam chomsky  that mainstream media has lost the traditional role of news gatekeeper.  the one-to-many road of traditional journalism  yes  it is threatened. and professional journalists need to acclimate themselves to an environment in which there are many more contributors to the discourse   says mr nachison.  the notion of a gatekeeper who filters and decides what s acceptable for public consumption and what isn t  that s gone forever.   with people now walking around with information devices in their pockets  like camera or video phones  we are going to see more instances of ordinary citizens breaking stories.   it seems unlikely that we will end up living in a planet where every human is a blogger.  but the current number of blogs is likely to keep on growing  in a web already overloaded with information. blog analysis firm technorati estimates the number of blogs in existence  the so-called blogosphere  has already exceeded five million  and is growing at exponential levels. tools such as google s blogger  movabletype and the recently launched beta version of msn spaces are making it easier to run a blog. us research think-tank pew internet & american life says a blog is created every 5.8 seconds  although less than 40% of the total are updated at least once every two months. but experts agree that the phenomenon  allowing individuals to publish  share ideas  exchange information  comment on current issues  post images or video on the web easily  is here to stay.  we are entering one era in which the technological infrastructure is creating a different context for how we tell our stories and how we communicate with each other   said mr nachison.  and there s going to be bad that comes with the good.
go-ahead for balkan oil pipeline albania  bulgaria and macedonia has given the go ahead for the construction of a $1.2bn oil pipeline that will pass through the balkan peninsula.  the project aims to allow alternative ports for the shipping of russian and caspian oil  that normally goes through turkish ports. it aims to transport 750 000 daily barrels of oil. the pipeline will be built by the us-registered albanian macedonian bulgarian oil corporation (ambo). the 912km pipeline will run from the bulgarian port of burgas  over the black sea to the albanian city of vlore on the adriatic coast  crossing macedonia.  the project was conceived in 1994 but it was delayed because of the lack of political support. by signing the agreement on tuesday  the prime ministers of bulgaria  albania and macedonia have overcome the problem.  this is one of the most important infrastructure projects for regional  eu  and euro-atlantic integration for the western balkans   said albanian prime minister fatos nano. according to pat ferguson  president of ambo  work on the pipeline will begin in 2005 and it is expected to be ready in three or four years. he added that the company had already raised about $900m from the overseas private investment corporation (opic) - a us development agency - the eximbank and credit suisse first boston  among others. the project has also the support of the european union. analysts have said that oil companies like chevrontexaco  exxon mobil and british petroleum would be happy to find alternative routes to the bosphorus and dardanelles straits.
dementieva prevails in hong kong elena dementieva swept aside defending champion venus williams 6-3 6-2 to win hong kong s champions challenge event.  the russian  ranked sixth in the world  broke williams three times in the first set  while losing her service once. williams saved three championship points before losing the match at the victoria park tennis court.  it s really a great start to the year no matter whether it s an exhibition or not. i was trying to play my best and i really did it   said dementieva.  this will give me all the confidence before the grand slams. i was trying so hard to win this tournament.  williams  24  was disappointed with her display.  she played some nice points  but it was mostly me committing unforced errors - four or five errors in each game   she said. before the match  organizers auctioned off rackets belonging to the players  raising £115 000 for victims of the tsunami disaster.
krispy kreme shares hit shares in krispy kreme doughnuts have taken a dunking on wall street after the firm revealed it would have to restate its 2004 financial reports.  the company warned the move would cut its profits by $3.8m to $4.9m (£2m to £2.6m) - or between 6.6% and 8.6%. krispy kreme said accounting errors had forced the move  adding that its board of directors made the decision to restate its accounts on 28 december. however  the company was unavailable to comment on why it had delayed the news.  it also warned it might have to further restate results for 2004 and 2005.  shares in krispy kreme sank 14.87% - or $1.83 - to close at $10.48 on the news. the revelation comes just a month after the firm warned earnings would be cut by as much as 7.6% as a result of accounting errors. krispy kreme said the latest adjustments involved the way it accounted for the repurchase of three franchise restaurants. it added it would now be reviewing how it accounts for its leases. in a further blow  the firm said it had been advised that some of its franchise owners were not in compliance with their loan agreements  and warned it might need to borrow extra money if it was required to honour agreements on franchisee debts or operating leases.  krispy kreme added that it had enough cash to fund its current operations  but it could not borrow any more under its existing agreements.  there are many more questions than answers  especially given increased concerns regarding company liquidity   jp morgan securities analyst john ivankoe said in a research note on the firm. the announcement is the latest blow for the one-time darling of wall street  which has lost 80% of its stock value in just over a year. the firm is currently facing securities and exchange commission investigation of its accounts. shareholders have also launched lawsuits against the group  claiming it made false statements and inflated sales.
singer s film to show at festival a documentary which takes a candid look at the life of chart-topping singer george michael will be shown at this year s berlin film festival.  a different story will screen in the panorama section of the festival  which runs from 10-20 february. it features the singer talking about both his career and his personal life  from his days in wham! through to more recent events. michael will attend the festival to introduce the screening on 16 february. director southan morris and executive producer andy stephens will also attend the festival.  the 93 minute film will see michael discussing his early days in wham! along with his later career  including his legal battles with record label sony and his stance against the iraq war and american politics. it will also touch upon his turbulent personal life  including his arrest in a beverly hills park toilet in 1998 for  lewd behaviour   and the death of his boyfriend anselmo feleppa from aids. the film  which includes previously unseen footage of the singer also features contributions from michael s former wham! partner andrew ridgeley  as well as ex-wham! backing singers pepsi and shirlie. other contributors include sting  mariah carey  elton john  noel gallagher  geri halliwell and simon cowell. this year s festival will open with man to man  a historical epic starring joseph fiennes and kristin scott-thomas. it will be one of 21 films competing for the festival s top prize  the golden bear. other films in competition will include the life aquatic  a quirky comedy starring bill murray  and the biopic kinsey  which features liam neeson. the full programme will be announced on 1 february.
singer sizzla jailed for swearing reggae star sizzla  whose uk tour was cancelled after protests at his  anti-gay  lyrics  has been jailed in jamaica for swearing on stage.  the singer must serve 15 days in prison after he consistently swore during a concert in st thomas  jamaica  in january despite warnings by police. he was charged under a law which prohibits indecent dress or expression. sizzla s five-date uk tour was cancelled last november after protests by gay rights campaigners.  sizzla  whose real name is miguel collins  has released 25 albums since 1995 and is credited with taking dancehall music back to its reggae origins. many jamaican entertainers have appeared before the courts for use of profanity in recent years but they usually receive a verbal warning  a suspended sentence or community service. sizzla s uk tour was cancelled after scotland yard s racial and violent crime taskforce announced it was examining lyrics by eight reggae artists. it would not confirm that sizzla was among them. one of his most controversial songs  pump up  contains the jamaican patois lyrics  fire fi di man dem weh go ride man behind   translated by gay rights group outrage! as  burn the men who have sex with men .
dublin hi-tech labs to shut down dublin s hi-tech research laboratory  media labs europe  is to shut down.  the research centre  which was started by the irish government and the massachusetts institute of technology  was a hotbed for technology concepts. since its opening in 2000  the centre has developed ideas  such as implants for teeth  and also aimed to be a digital hub for start-ups in the area. the centre was supposed to be self-funded  but has failed to attract the private cash injection it needs. in a statement  media labs europe said the decision to close was taken because neither the irish government nor the prestigious us-based massachusetts institute of technology (mit) was willing to fund it. prime minister bertie ahern had wanted to the centre to become a big draw for smaller hi-tech companies  in an attempt to regenerate the area.  about three dozen small firms were attracted to the area  but it is thought the effects of the dot.com recession damaged the labs  long-term survival. the labs needed about 10 million euros (us$13 million) a year from corporate sponsors to survive.  in the end  it was too deep and too long a recession   said simon jones  the labs  managing director. ian pearson  bt s futurologist  told the bbc news website that the closure was a  real shame . bt was just one of the companies that had worked with the labs  looking at rfid tag developments and video conferencing.  there were a lot of very talented  creative people there and they came up with some great ideas that were helping to ensure greater benefits of technology for society.  i have no doubt that the individuals will be quickly snapped up by other research labs  but the synergies from them working as a team will be lost.   noel dempsey  the government s communications minister  said mr ahern had been  very committed  to the project.  he is  i know  very disappointed it has come to this. at the time it seemed to be the right thing to do   he said.  unfortunately the model is not a sustainable one in the current climate.   during its five years  innovative and some unusual ideas for technologies were developed. in recent months  14 patent applications had been filed by the labs. many concepts fed into science  engineering  and psychology as well as technology  but it is thought too few of the ideas were commercially viable in the near-term. several research teams explored how which humans could react with technologies in ways which were entirely different. the human connectedness group  for example  developed the iband  a bracelet which stored and exchanged information about you and your relationships. this information could be beamed to another wearer when two people shook hands. other projects looked at using other human senses  like touch  to interact with devoices which could be embedded in the environment  or on the body itself. one project examined how brainwaves could directly control a computer game. the labs  set up in an old guinness brewery  housed around 100 people  made up of staff  researchers  students  collaborators and part-time undergraduate students. it is thought more than 50 people will lose their jobs when the labs close on 1 february. according to its latest accounts  media lab europe said it spent 8.16 million euros (about us$10.6 million) in 2003 and raised just 2.56 million euros (us$3.3 million).
capriati out of australian open jennifer capriati has become the third leading lady to withdraw from the australian open because of injury.  the organisers of the first grand slam of 2005  which begins on 17 january  said the american has a problem with her right shoulder. it comes as a blow to the women s draw as last year s champion  justin henin-hardenne  and runner-up  kim clijsters  will also be absent. capriati is a two-time champion in melbourne with wins in 2001 and 2002. she is believed to have picked up the injury at the advanta championships at philadelphia in november and had to pull out of an exhibition match with wimbledon champion maria sharapova on 17 december. capriati also decided against competing in the australian open warm-up event  the sydney international.
federer breezes into semi-finals roger federer reached the last four of the qatar open with an easy 6-1 6-2 win over seventh seed feliciano lopez.  the swiss world number one reeled off a series winners to outclass the spaniard and set up a semi-final match against russian nikolay davydenko. federer  who lost in the quarter-final in his last qatar appearance in 2003  was happy with his form.  i think i played better than against greg rusedski and i am happy i am playing so well   said the top seed. lopez showed glimpses of resolve early in the second set when he held his first service game and came close to breaking federer. but the swiss saved a break point and promptly broke serve in the following game to seize control. davydenko  meanwhile  upset french third seed sebastien grosjean 2-6 6-3 6-2. fabrice santoro completed a miserable day for france when he was forced to retire when 6-2 3-0 down to albert costa. spaniard costa will next face croatian ivan ljubicic after the sixth seed beat rafael nadal 6-2 6-7 (3/7) 6-3.
blog  picked as word of the year the term  blog  has been chosen as the top word of 2004 by a us dictionary publisher.  merriam-webster said  blog  headed the list of most looked-up terms on its site during the last twelve months. during 2004 blogs  or web logs  have become hugely popular and some have started to influence mainstream media. other words on the merriam-webster list were associated with major news events such as the us presidential election or natural disasters that hit the us.  merriam-webster defines a blog as:  a web site that contains an online personal journal with reflections  comments and often hyperlinks . its list of most looked-up words is drawn up every year and it discounts terms such as swear words  that everyone likes to look up  or those that always cause problems  such as  affect  and  effect .  merriam-webster said  blog  was the word that people have asked to be defined or explained most often over the last 12 months. the word will now appear in the 2005 version of merriam-webster s printed dictionary. however  the word is already included in some printed versions of the oxford english dictionary. a spokesman for the oxford university press said that the word was now being put into other dictionaries for children and learners  reflecting its mainstream use.  i think it was the word of last year rather than this year   he said.  now we re getting words that derive from it such as  blogosphere  and so on   he said.  but   he added   it s a pretty recent thing and in the way that this happens these days it s got established very quickly.   blogs come in many different forms. many act as news sites for particular groups or subjects  some are written from a particular political slant and others are simply lists of interesting sites. other terms in the top 10 were related to natural disasters that have struck the us  such as  hurricane  or were to do with the us election. words such as  incumbent    electoral  and  partisan  reflected the scale of interest in the vote. blogs also proved very useful to both sides in the us election battle because many pundits who maintain their own journals were able to air opinions that would never appear in more mainstream media. speculation that president bush was getting help during debates via a listening device was first aired on web logs. online journals also raised doubts about documents used by us television news organisation cbs in a story about president bush s war record. the immediacy of many blogs also helped some wield influence over topics that made it in to national press.  this is despite the fact that the number of people reading even the most influential blogs is tiny. statistics by web influence ranking firm hitwise reveal that the most popular political blog racks up only 0.0051% of all net visits per day. one of the reasons that blogs and regularly updated online journals have become popular is because the software used to put them together make it very easy for people to air their views online. according to blog analysis firm technorati the number of blogs in existence  the blogosphere  has doubled every five and a half months for the last 18 months. technorati now estimates that the number of blogs in existence has exceeded 4.8 million. some speculate that less than a quarter of this number are regularly maintained. according to us research firm pew internet & american life a blog is created every 5.8 seconds. another trend this year has been the increasing numbers of weblogs that detail the daily lives of many ordinary workers in jobs that few people know much about. in many repressive regimes and developing nations  blogs have been embraced by millions of people keen to give their plight a voice.
the producers scoops stage awards the producers has beaten mary poppins in the battle of the blockbuster west end musicals at the olivier awards.  the producers won three prizes at the uk s most prestigious annual theatre awards  while mary poppins won two. mel brooks  hit show triumphed in the battle for best new musical  where it was up against mary poppins and andrew lloyd webber s the woman in white. alan bennett s the history boys was the big winner in the straight theatre categories  picking up three trophies. but all eyes were on the musical prizes after the producers  mary poppins and the woman in white all had high-profile openings in the last six months.  the producers  nathan lane  a last-minute replacement for richard dreyfuss  beat his former co-star lee evans to win best musical actor. lane has already left the production. a smash hit on broadway before moving to london  the show also won best musical performance in a supporting role for conleth hill  who plays director roger debris. mary poppins  awards came for best choreography and best musical actress for its star laura michelle kelly. it led the nominations going into sunday s ceremony at london s hilton hotel  up for nine awards. both shows are stage adaptations of 1960s films. the history boys  set in a grammar school in the early 1980s and partly based on bennett s experiences as a teacher  was named best new play.  it also won best actor for richard griffiths  who beat his harry potter film co-star michael gambon  nominated for endgame  as well as jonathan pryce and ben whishaw. the play also won national theatre artistic director nicholas hytner best director and bennett got a special award for outstanding contribution to british theatre. dame judi dench  who starred in all s well that ends well at the gielgud  lost out in the best supporting role category to amanda harris  who played emilia in othello for the royal shakespeare company. the olivier awards have been handed out by the society of london since 1976.  - best lighting design - his dark materials designed by paule constable at the olivier   - best sound design - the woman in white designed by mick potter at the palace   - best new opera - lady macbeth of mtsensk at the royal opera house   - outstanding achievement in opera - thomas ades and the royal opera house for the world premiere of the tempest   - best costume design - all s well that ends well designed by deirdre clancy at the gielgud   - best revival - hamlet by william shakespeare at the old vic   - best set design - his dark materials designed by giles cadle at the olivier   - outstanding musical production - grand hotel at the donmar warehouse   - best supporting role in a musical - conleth hill for the producers at theatre royal  drury lane   - best theatre choreographer - matthew bourne and stephen mear for mary poppins at the prince edward   - best actor - richard griffiths for the history boys at the lyttelton   - outstanding achievement or performance in an affiliate theatre - andrew scott for a girl in a car with a man at the jerwood theatre upstairs at the royal court   - best new dance production - rambert dance company s swamp at sadler s wells   - outstanding achievement in dance - san francisco ballet for their season at sadler s wells   - best performance in a supporting role - amanda harris for othello at trafalgar studios   - best actress - clare higgins for hecuba at the donmar warehouse   - best musical actor - nathan lane for the producers at theatre royal  drury lane   - best musical actress - laura michelle kelly for mary poppins at the prince edward   - best director - nicholas hytner for the history boys at the lyttelton   - best new play - the history boys by alan bennett at the lyttelton   - best new musical - the producers at theatre royal  drury lane   - special award - alan bennett for his outstanding contribution to british theatre
us in eu tariff chaos trade row the us has asked the world trade organisation to investigate european union customs tariffs  which it says are inconsistent and hamper trade.  the eu s own institutions have noted the uneven way eu customs rules are applied but failed to act  the us trade representative s office said. small and mid-sized us firms were worst-hit  it added. the eu expanded from 15 to 25 member states in may. the us said it filed the complaint after talks failed to find a solution.  the move came in the same week that the us and eu stepped back from confrontation in a tense dispute over aircraft subsidies to european manufacturer airbus and us firm boeing. new eu trade commissioner peter mandelson said on tuesday that the two sides had agreed to reopen talks in the aircraft subsidies row  which led to tit-for-tat wto filings in last autumn.  explaining why it has asked the wto to set up a dispute settlement panel on customs barriers  the us trade representative s office said that it wants to tackle the issue  early in the eu s process of dealing with the problems of enlargement . ten countries  mostly in eastern europe  joined the eu in may. the us said its trade with the 25 eu member countries was worth $155.2bn (£82.8bn) in 2003.  although the eu is a customs union  there is no single eu customs administration   a statement issued on behalf of robert zoellick  us trade representative  said. lack of uniformity  coupled with lack of procedures for prompt eu-wide review can hinder us exports  especially for small to mid-sized businesses   an eu spokesman in washington dismissed the us complaint.  we think the us case is very weak. they haven t come up with any evidence that us companies are being harmed   said anthony gooch. it could take several months for the wto s dispute settlement panel to report its findings.
tories  would cut number of mps  the conservative party would cut the number of mps by about one-fifth if they were elected  tory leader michael howard has said.  the plan forms part of the party s  smaller government bill   to be unveiled later this week. mr howard told the sunday times the party would also reduce the number of government special advisers. and he said a referendum would be held in wales to decide whether or not to scrap the welsh assembly.  the changes would all take place within five years of the conservatives winning a general election  mr howard told the paper.  the precise number of mps to go would depend on the result of the welsh referendum  but it would probably mean a reduction of around 120 from the current total of 659. if wales decided to keep its assembly it would stand to lose more mps. mr howard said as both parties planned to cut the number of civil servants at whitehall - labour by more than 80 000 and the tories by almost 100 000 - they should accept a similar drop in their own numbers.  it is all very well saying government departments should be reduced  but what about ministers  parliament and special advisers   he said. shadow leader of the commons oliver heald said:  this will be part of our aim to reduce unnecessary and costly interference in people s lives by reducing the size and role of the state .  mr howard said the plan would also even out the  great unfairness  of there being proportionately more scottish and welsh mps at westminster than those from england. the average size of an english constituency was 70 000 people  mr howard said. in northern ireland it was just over 66 000  in wales just over 59 000 and in scotland 53 000. the number of welsh mps would be set at an amount that was  consistent and fair in terms of representation with the rest of the united kingdom  if the assembly was scrapped. mr howard said the changes should be carried out quickly and could even be implemented by the election after next.  you have got to have a big bang. we don t want this like the house of lords reform  getting to one stage and then not having the next stage.
mcdonald s boss bell dies aged 44 charlie bell  the straight-talking former head of fast-food giant mcdonald s  has died of cancer aged 44.  mr bell was diagnosed with colorectal cancer in may last year  a month after taking over the top job. he resigned in november to fight the illness. joining the company as a 15-year-old part-time worker  mr bell quickly moved through its ranks  becoming australia s youngest store manager at 19. a popular go-getter  he is credited with helping revive mcdonald s sales. mr bell leaves a wife and daughter.  as we mourn his passing  i ask you to keep charlie s family in your hearts and prayers   chief executive james skinner said in a statement.  and remember that in his abbreviated time on this earth  charlie lived life to the fullest.   no matter what cards life dealt  charlie stayed centred on his love for his family and for mcdonald s.   after running the company s australian business in the 1990s  mr bell moved to the us in 1999 to run operations in asia  africa and the middle east. in 2001  he took over the reins in europe  mcdonald s second most important market. he became chief operating officer and president in 2002. mr bell took over as chief executive after his predecessor as ceo  jim cantalupo  died suddenly of a heart attack in april. having worked closely with mr cantalupo  who came out of retirement to turn mcdonald s around  mr bell focused on boosting demand at existing restaurants rather than follow a policy of rapid expansion. he had promised not to let the company get  fat  dumb and happy   and  according to reuters  once told analysts that he would shove a fire hose down the throat of competitors if he saw them drowning. mr bell oversaw mcdonald s  i m lovin  it  advertising campaign and introduced successes such as mccafe  now the biggest coffee shop brand in australia and new zealand. colleagues said that mr bell was proud of his humble beginnings  helping out behind cash tills and clearing tables when visiting restaurants.
web photo storage market hots up an increasing number of firms are offering web storage for people with digital photo collections.  digital cameras were the hot gadget of christmas 2004 and worldwide sales of the cameras totalled $24bn last year. many people s hard drives are bulging with photos and services which allow them to store and share their pictures online are becoming popular. search firms such as google are also offering more complex tools for managing personal photo libraries. photo giants such as kodak offer website storage which manages photo collections  lets users edit pictures online and provides print-ordering services. some services  such as kodak s ofoto and snapfish  offer unlimited storage space but they do require users to buy some prints online. other sites  such as pixagogo  charge a monthly fee. marcus hawkins  editor of digital camera magazine  said:  as file sizes of pictures increase  storage becomes a problem.  people are using their hard drives  backing up on cd and dvd and now they are using online storage solutions.   they are a place to store pictures  to share their pictures with families and friends and they can print out their photos.   while many of the services are aimed at the amateur and casual digital photographer  other websites are geared up for enthusiasts who want to share tips and information. photosig is an online community of photographers who can critique each other s work. on tuesday  google released free software for organising and finding digital photos stored on a computer s hard drive. the tool  called picasa  automatically detects photos as they are added to a pc - whether sent via e-mail or transferred from a digital camera.  the software includes tools for restoring colour and removing red eye  as well as sharpening images. photos can then be uploaded to sites such as ofoto. many people use the sites to edit and improve their favourite photographs before ordering prints. mr hawkins added:  the growth area is that you can order your prints online. friends and family can also access pictures you want them to see and they can print them out too.  rather than just a place to dump your pictures  it s about sharing them.   the vast majority of pictures remain on a pc s hard drive  which is why search tools  such as those offered by google  become increasingly important. but some historians and archivists are concerned that the need for perfect pictures will mean that those poor quality prints which offered a tantilising glimpse of the past may disappear forever.  it s one thing taking pictures  it s another finding them   said mr hawkins.  but this is the same problem that has always existed - how many of us have photos in wallets tucked away somewhere
radcliffe enjoys winning comeback paula radcliffe made a triumphant return to competitive running with victory in the new york marathon.  the briton  running for the first time since dropping out of the olympic marathon and 10 000m  held off kenyan susan chepkemei in a thrilling finish. the pair were locked together for the last few miles before radcliffe finally sprinted clear to win in two hours  23 minutes and 10 seconds.  it s a good way to end the year   she said.  i m ready for a good rest now.  radcliffe decided only recently to run in the race and many had doubted whether she had sufficiently recovered from her olympic ordeal just 11 weeks ago. but the world record-holder was prominent at the head of the field for the whole race as her rivals slowly dropped off the pace. just chepkemei and radcliffe were left in contention as the race came into the final few miles. the kenyan put in several bursts of speed to throw off radcliffe but the briton managed to hang in. both runners looked to be suffering as they reached the final mile in central park. but it was radcliffe who managed to dredge up a final sprint to see off chepkemei in the closest finish in the race s history and in the process make a huge step in erasing the disappointment she suffered in athens.
fox attacks blair s tory  lies  tony blair lied when he took the uk to war so has no qualms about lying in the election campaign  say the tories.  tory co-chairman liam fox was speaking after mr blair told labour members the tories offered a  hard right agenda . dr fox told bbc radio:  if you are willing to lie about the reasons for going to war  i guess you are going to lie about anything at all.  he would not discuss reports the party repaid £500 000 to lord ashcroft after he predicted an election defeat.  the prime minister ratcheted up labour s pre-election campaigning at the weekend with a helicopter tour of the country and his speech at the party s spring conference. he insisted he did not know the poll date  but it is widely expected to be 5 may.  in what was seen as a highly personal speech in gateshead on sunday  mr blair said:  i have the same passion and hunger as when i first walked through the door of 10 downing street.  he described his relationship with the public as starting euphoric  then struggling to live up to the expectations  and reaching the point of raised voices and  throwing crockery . he warned his supporters against complacency  saying:  it s a fight for the future of our country  it s a fight that for britain and the people of britain we have to win.   mr blair said that whether the public chose michael howard or mr kennedy  it would result in  a tory government not a labour government and a country that goes back and does not move forward . dr fox accused mr blair and other cabinet ministers of telling lies about their opponents  policies and then attacking the lies.  what we learned at the weekend is what labour tactics are going to be and it s going to be fear and smear   he told bbc news. the tory co-chairman attacked labour s six new pledges as  vacuous  and said mr blair was very worried voters would take revenge for his failure to deliver. dr fox refused to discuss weekend newspaper reports that the party had repaid £500 000 to former tory treasurer lord ashcroft after he said the party could not win the election.  we repay loans when they are due but do not comment to individual financial matters   he said  insisting he enjoyed a  warm and constructive  relationship to lord ashcroft.  meanwhile lib dem leader charles kennedy is expected to attack mr blair s words as he begins a nationwide tour on monday. mr kennedy is accelerating lib dem election preparations this week as he visits manchester  liverpool  leicester  somerset  basingstoke  shrewsbury  dorset and torbay. he said:  this is three-party politics. in the northern cities  the contest is between labour and the liberal democrats.  in southern and rural seats - especially in the south west - the principal contenders are the liberal democrats and the conservatives  who are out of the running in scotland and wales.  the lib dems accuse mr blair of making a  touchy-feely  speech to labour delegates which will not help him regain public trust.
blues slam blackburn over savage birmingham have confirmed blackburn made a bid for robbie savage - but managing director karen brady has called it  derisory .  rovers have reportedly offered £500 000 up front for the wales star  30  with the fee rising to £2.2m. but brady told the sun the bid was  a waste of fax paper and my time . she added:  the way things are going all this could affect the relationship between the clubs. they ve got into robbie s head. but he s not for sale.  savage s future at birmingham has been the source of speculation for several weeks  with some fans criticising his performances for the club earlier in the season. however  good displays against west brom and aston villa have impressed blues fans.  the crowd gave me a massive standing ovation when i came off on saturday which was nice   he said.  it was fantastic even though i was criticised by a number of them in recent weeks and on saturday it showed how much i mean to them.  it s not for me to say (about transfer rumours)  it s between the two clubs.  i haven t created the speculation myself  i haven t phoned every national newspaper saying   blackburn are trying to buy me . it s not up to me.  birmingham manager steve bruce insists he does not want to sell savage.  a lot is said and written about sav but he has been terrific for birmingham city the last two and a half years   he said.   the fans love him because he epitomises them. he works hard  they like people like that and there are not many like him.  and why the hell should i sell him to someone else  i am not interested.
fockers fuel festive film chart comedy meet the fockers topped the festive box office in north america  setting a new record for christmas day.  the sequel took $44.7m (£23.2m) between 24 and 26 december  according to studio estimates. it took $19.1m (£9.9m) on christmas day alone  the highest takings on that day in box office history. meet the fockers is the sequel to ben stiller comedy meet the parents  also starring robert de niro  blythe danner  dustin hoffman and barbra streisand. despite the success of meet the fockers  takings were down 26.5% on 2003 s figures - which was blamed on christmas falling over a weekend this year.   when christmas falls on a weekend  it s bad for business   said paul dergarabedian  president of exhibitor relations  which compiles box office statistics. the weekend s top 12 films took an estimated $121.9m (£63.3m)  compared with $165.8m (£86.1m) last year  when the third lord of the rings film dominated the box office. meet the fockers knocked last week s top film  lemony snicket s a series of unfortunate events  down to third place  with $12.5m (£6.5m). comedy fat albert - co-written by bill cosby - entered the chart in second place after opening on christmas day  taking $12.7m (£6.6m). the aviator  starring leonardo dicaprio as howard hughes  took $9.4m after expanding from 40 to 1 796 cinemas on christmas day.
how to make a greener computer the hi-tech industry is starting to get more environmentally aware. bill thompson thinks it s about time.  my first car ran on four star petrol and pumped vast quantities of lead into the atmosphere as i drove around cambridge. now you can t buy petrol with lead additives  and we re all better off as a result. chip giant intel recently began shipping computer circuit boards that are lead free too  reflecting a growing awareness on the part of the technology industry that products have to be designed and built in more environmentally friendly ways.  apart from reducing the use of toxic materials like arsenic  mercury  cadmium and other heavy metals in the products themselves  the manufacturing process is also being cleaned up  with fewer complex and potentially damaging organic chemicals used as solvents. and work is going into making power supplies that are more energy efficient  since current transformers are astonishingly wasteful as they charge our laptops  mobiles and music players.  one of the key aspects of the new approach is to design products that are easier to recycle. if you have got a phone or a computer with toxic chemicals or heavy metals in it then extracting them can be tricky and expensive. a well-designed electronic component is able to be recycled at low cost. this is going to be very important to hardware manufacturers in europe since from august the new waste electronic and electrical equipment directive will oblige them to accept returned products for recycling.  they will end up paying if they build things that are expensive or impossible to take apart and will find their profits hit  something which is likely to motivate them where appeals to the wider public interest might fall on deaf ears. it is  as they say  about time. we have a long and depressing history of developing new technologies with complete disregard for their potential impact on the environment  and waiting until there is a crisis looming before we try to redesign them to cause less damage. the car engine is a case in point: lead additives helped stop petrol vapour exploding too early in the cylinder  a phenomenon called  knocking   so they were simply used without any real thought for the fact that the lead would end up in the atmosphere. redesigning engines and making petrol slightly different was a lot more work  so it took decades before it was done. we re seeing the same thing in the technology industry and  as a result  there are billions of devices  from old mobile phones to antique handhelds  that will have to be recycled in years to come. if apple gets its way then a lot of people are going to be buying a new mac mini and throwing away their old pc  keeping the monitor and other peripherals.  even if apple does not get its way  four or five-year-old computers are not good enough to run modern programs and it s not unreasonable to replace them. but what do we do with the old ones   i ve just looked around my office and i find two monitors  an old 386 pc  two old handhelds  three ancient laptops  four antique mobile phones  a collection of rechargeable batteries and even a sun workstation that is no longer really much use. they are all old enough to be hazardous waste - the monitors alone will be full of arsenic and lead - but it s possible that some of the components could be useful. i could take them up the to the council recycling centre  but it s a 10-mile drive away across town  and like many other people my commitment to recycling is shallow at best. here in cambridge we have green bins for compostable waste  a box for glass  cans and paper that can be recycled  and a black bin for the rest. there are bottle banks and clothing banks scattered around town and in supermarket car parks. would it be too much to ask for an electronics recycling box too  i d probably remember to take my old mobile with me to the supermarket and drop it in a box - at least eventually.  bill thompson is a regular commentator on the bbc world service programme go digital.
xbox power cable  fire fear  microsoft has said it will replace more than 14 million power cables for its xbox consoles due to safety concerns.  the company said the move was a  preventative step  after reports of fire hazard problems with the cables. it affects xboxes made before 23 october 2003 for all regions but mainland europe - and consoles in that region made before 13 january 2004. microsoft said it had received 30 reports of minor injury or property damage due to faulty cables. the firm said fewer than one in 10 000 consoles had experienced component failures. the recall affects almost three quarters of all xboxes sold around the world since its launch in 2001.  in a statement  it added:  in almost all instances  any damage caused by these failures was contained within the console itself or limited to the tip of the power cord at the back of the console.  but in seven cases  customers reported sustaining a minor burn to their hand. in 23 cases  customers reported smoke damage  or minor damage to a carpet or entertainment centre.  this is a preventative step we re choosing to take despite the rarity of these incidents   said robbie bach  senior vice president  microsoft home and entertainment division.  we regret the inconvenience  but believe offering consumers a free replacement cord is the responsible thing to do.  consumers can order a new cable from the xbox website or by telephoning 0800 028 9276 in the uk. microsoft said customers would get replacement cords within two to four weeks from the time of order. it advised users to turn off their xboxes when not in use. a follow-up to xbox is expected to released at the end of this year or the beginning of 2006.
kilroy-silk attacked with slurry euro mp robert kilroy-silk has had a bucket of farm slurry thrown over him by a protester in manchester.  the uk independence party member was arriving for a bbc radio show when the attacker emerged from behind a bush. fellow guest ruth kelly mp was also hit by the slurry. mr kilroy-silk said the man  who later disappeared  claimed he was  doing it in the name of islam . in january  mr kilroy-silk quit his bbc one show for remarks he made about arabs  who he called  suicide bombers .  mr kilroy-silk had already been taken off air by bbc bosses for the comments  in which he also described arabs as  limb-amputators  women repressors . the remarks prompted outrage among muslim groups. the slurry attack took place on friday as mr kilroy-silk and ms kelly  a cabinet office minister and bolton west mp  arrived at manchester high school for girls for the recording of bbc radio 4 s any questions.  the police were called but the attacker had disappeared by the time officers arrived. they are treating the incident as assault. the programme s host  jonathan dimbleby  later told the audience the mep had been covered from  head to toe . mr kilroy-silk was still able appear to appear on the show after being loaned a change of clothes.  he told reporters he was  very angry  and planned to press charges if his attacker was caught. he said the man shouted:  you ve offended my religion  i m doing this in the name of islam.   as i started to turn round a guy tipped a bucket of farmyard muck over me and then threw the rest of it over me and the car   mr kilroy-silk said.  i was totally covered  it was all through my clothes  and it stank to high heaven. it went all inside the car and splattered ruth kelly.  a bbc spokesman said:  he took his seat as jonathan dimbleby was introducing the show. fortunately someone at the school had a change of clothes to let him have.  greater manchester police said people near mr kilroy-silk had also been hit by the waste. officers took statements at the scene  but no arrests have been made. police say the suspect ran off after towards wilmslow road after committing the offence but is believed to have been driving a red vauxhall corsa earlier. the suspect is described as white  aged 30 to 40  with a ginger beard. police want to hear from anyone who has any information.  mr kilroy-silk  an mep for the east midlands  resigned the uk independence party whip in the european parliament in october  after criticising ukip and stating his ambition to be leader. however  he remains a member of the party. he said on friday he hoped to be elected party leader before christmas.  i think that is sufficient time for us to put in process what is necessary... in time for us to fight and have a significant impact upon the general election.  but a ukip spokesman said that would be impossible under the party s constitution  which requires 70 days before any leadership ballot can take place.
singer s film to show at festival a documentary which takes a candid look at the life of chart-topping singer george michael will be shown at this year s berlin film festival.  a different story will screen in the panorama section of the festival  which runs from 10-20 february. it features the singer talking about both his career and his personal life  from his days in wham! through to more recent events. michael will attend the festival to introduce the screening on 16 february. director southan morris and executive producer andy stephens will also attend the festival.  the 93 minute film will see michael discussing his early days in wham! along with his later career  including his legal battles with record label sony and his stance against the iraq war and american politics. it will also touch upon his turbulent personal life  including his arrest in a beverly hills park toilet in 1998 for  lewd behaviour   and the death of his boyfriend anselmo feleppa from aids. the film  which includes previously unseen footage of the singer also features contributions from michael s former wham! partner andrew ridgeley  as well as ex-wham! backing singers pepsi and shirlie. other contributors include sting  mariah carey  elton john  noel gallagher  geri halliwell and simon cowell. this year s festival will open with man to man  a historical epic starring joseph fiennes and kristin scott-thomas. it will be one of 21 films competing for the festival s top prize  the golden bear. other films in competition will include the life aquatic  a quirky comedy starring bill murray  and the biopic kinsey  which features liam neeson. the full programme will be announced on 1 february.
dance music not dead says fatboy dj norman cook - aka fatboy slim - has said that dance music is not dead  but has admitted it is currently going through a  fallow patch .  the commercial failure of the latest albums by britain s two biggest dance acts - fatboy slim s palookaville and the prodigy s always outnumbered never outgunned - has been coupled with the closure of many  superclubs   and the folding of three dance music magazines. last month the brit awards announced they would no longer be awarding a best dance act prize  with the brits committee announcing that  dance music is no longer where it s happening in music.  these developments lead some to suggest that dance was finished as a popular music genre. cook acknowledged that much change in the dance world in the four years since his last album  halfway between the gutter and the stars  but he stressed this did not mean the dance scene was permanently over.  every week when i was making the album  i was reading articles about the demise of dance music - and obviously that affects you somewhat   he told bbc world service s the ticket programme.  i personally don t believe it s either dead or going to die  but it s going through a bit of a fallow patch.  so i think  consciously or subconsciously  reading every week that dance music was dead i would think  right  scrub that track then .   although his album sales in the uk are down - palookaville stayed in the uk top 75 for just three weeks - cook has achieved recent global success with his beach parties. and event on brighton sea front in 2002 attracted 250 000  people  while a later one in rio achieved a crowd of 360 000. the dvd of the rio set was the biggest seller of that year.   with a crowd that big  if the weather s nice  the atmosphere before i even go is so good that about halfway through the first record i think  i ve got them    cook said.  i m always really really nervous before the big ones - they had to give me valium before rio  because two hours before i was literally just pacing the floor.  for some reason  especially now i ve got a reputation for it  the atmosphere and the joie de vivre that s already going on means all i have to do is play  up  records.  he promised more such parties in more locations around the world - despite problems after the brighton event  which ended in chaos with many revellers finding themselves stranded as transport ground to a halt. one man also died of a heart attack  and a woman fell to her death during the free party.  we re having to widen our horizons from just beaches  because there s landlocked countries that want to get involved   cook said.  we re doing rio at the carnival  at the maracana  and sao paolo - our new gig is famous football stadiums.   the dj admitted  however  that his massive worldwide success had a downside  with intense media interest in his personal life. in particular  he said he had struggled to cope with tabloid intrusion during the temporary break-up of his marriage to radio one presenter zoe ball  after she was linked with dj dan peppe.   the tabloid thing has been difficult at times   cook said.  especially the me-and-zoe-gate - it s quite scary.  he said that he had been  determined  that what had happened with ball did not affect the album.  at first i was doing deliberately jolly tunes so that people wouldn t think i was depressed   he explained.  then i thought   that s not right .  and he highlighted a bizarre coincidence - that one song written before they split had turned out to have a great deal more meaning than intended.  i said to zoe   i did this track called my masochistic baby went and left me  do you mind if it s on the album    he recalled.  she said   yeah  it s hilarious  because your masochistic baby did leave you .  cook also added that he had some ways of coping with the intense paparazzi pressure  which accumulates at the end of the private road he lives on - where paul mccartney is a neighbour.  it s almost like prisoners rattling the bars with their mugs   cook explained.  if there s a pap at the end of the road  everyone knocks on each other s doors - paul comes round  and we warn him  because we don t know who they re after.
parties warned over  grey vote  political parties cannot afford to take older uk voters for granted in the coming election  says age concern.  a survey for the charity suggests 69% of over-55s say they always vote in a general election compared with just 17% of 18 to 24 year olds. charity boss gordon lishman said if a  decisive blow  was struck at the election it would be by older voters who could be relied on to turn out. a total of 3 028 adults aged 18 or over were interviewed for the study. mr lishman urged the next government to boost state pension.  he also called for measures to combat ageism and build effective public services to  support us all in an ageing society .  older people want to see manifesto commitments that will make a difference to their lives   mr lishman said.  political parties must wake up to the fact that unless they address the demands and concerns of older people they will not keep or attract their vote.  in the survey carried out by icm research  14% of people aged between 18 and 34 said they never voted in general elections. among the over-65s  70% said they would be certain to vote in an immediate election  compared with 39% of people under 55. age concern says the over-55s are  united around  key areas of policy they want the government to focus on. for 57%  pensions and the nhs were key issues  while the economy was important for a third  and tax was a crucial area for 25%.  the report was welcomed by conservative shadow pensions secretary david willetts.  the pensioners  voice must certainly be heard in the next election as they have never fitted into blair s cool britannia   he said.  labour s continued refusal to admit the true extent of the pensions crisis will be one of the monumental failures of this government.  he pointed to tory plans to increase the basic state pension to reduce means testing  strengthen company pensions and encourage savings. a liberal democrat spokesman said the party took the issues raised in the report very seriously. he highlighted the party s promises to raise the basic state pension  provide free long-term care for the elderly and replace council tax  seen as a particular problem for pensioners on fixed incomes. labour has said it wants to use savings reforms to incapacity benefit to improve the basic state pension and has set up a review of the council tax system.
blair pledges unity to labour mps tony blair has sought to reassure labour backbenchers that nothing will stand in the way of the party s bid for a third term in power.  mr blair was speaking to mps amid fresh rumours of a rift with gordon brown. a new book says the prime minister went back on a pledge to mr brown to stand down before the next general election. the chancellor has said he is focused on winning the poll and is due to join election supremo alan milburn for a labour poster launch this week. mr blair told the parliamentary labour party (plp) on monday:  i know from everyone here  in cabinet and government  nothing is going to get in the way of a unified labour party with a unified position and winning the third term people desperately need.  the prime minister and his chancellor arrived within seconds of each other and seemingly in good spirits at the start of the meeting which lasted around an hour. a new book  brown s britain by sunday telegraph journalist robert peston  says mr blair went back on a pledge to make way for mr brown after cabinet allies intervened in june 2004.  it has caused a new wave of concern among labour mps gearing up to defend their seats in an election  widely expected to be held in may  and several members are understood to have lined up to express their discontent at the plp meeting. health secretary john reid earlier warned that labour members would not easily forgive anybody fuelling damaging speculation. he told bbc news:  those who co-operate or inspire these books  in my view  have to know that  whatever the short-term political or personal advantage that they think they might secure  they always do it by damaging the record  the unity and the re-election chances of the labour party and the government.  mr blair on sunday dismissed claims of broken promises  saying:  i ve dealt with this six months ago. i said then you don t do deals over jobs like this - you don t.   in a separate bbc interview  mr brown said he and the prime minister would not be distracted by  gossip .  it s very important that we all do what we can in a unified way to ensure the election of a labour government   he said.  on monday  mr blair s spokesman said:  the prime minister is determined that he will get on with the business of government because he believes that what people want.  mr brown says he discussed the election campaign with mr blair on saturday and promised to play his part.  mr peston said the pair had  mutual animosity and contempt . mr blair had decided in november 2003 he would quit because he felt he had lost voters  trust because of the iraq war.  he had then changed his mind in june 2004  following intervention from cabinet allies and suspicion that the chancellor was manoeuvring against him. mr brown allegedly said he could no longer believe anything mr blair told him. conservative co-chairman liam fox likened the two men to  self-obsessed schoolboys . liberal democrat parliamentary chairman matthew taylor said their personal ambition was  getting in the way of good government . ex-labour leader neil kinnock said mr blair and mr brown could only deal with the media frenzy by continuing to say they would not allow a row to damage labour or british interests. he told bbc radio five live that mr brown would never encourage any kind of insurrection or coup.
remote control rifle range debuts soon you could go hunting via the net.  a texas company is considering letting web users use a remote-controlled rifle to shoot down deer  antelope and wild pigs. for a small fee users will take control of a camera and rifle that they can use to spot and shoot the game animals as they roam around a 133-hectare texas ranch. the live-shot website behind the scheme already lets people practise shooting at targets via the internet.  john underwood  the man behind the live-shot website  said the idea for the remote-control hunting came to him a year ago when he was watching deer via a webcam on another net site.  we were looking at a beautiful white-tail buck and my friend said  if you just had a gun for that . a little light bulb went off in my head   mr underwood told the reuters news agency. a year s work and $10 000 has resulted in a remote-controlled rig on which sits a camera and .22 calibre rifle. mr underwood is planning to put one of these rigs in a concealed location in a small reserve on his texas ranch and let people shoot at a variety of game animals. also needed is a fast net connection so remote hunters can quickly track and aim at passing game animals with the camera and rifle rig. each remote hunting session will cost $150 with additional fees for meat processing and taxidermy work. species that can be shot will include barbary  corsican and mouflon sheep  blackbuck antelope and wild pigs. already the live-shot site lets people shoot 10 rounds at paper and silhouette targets for $5.95 for each 20-minute shooting session. for further fees  users can get the target they shot and a dvd recording of their session. handlers oversee each shooting session and can stop the gun being fired if it is being aimed off-range or at something it should not be. mr underwood said that internet hunting could be popular with disabled hunters unable to get out in the woods or distant hunters who cannot afford a trip to texas. in a statement the rspca said it had  grave concerns  about people being allowed to go online and remotely control a rifle.  we assume it would be extremely difficult to accurately control a gun in this way and therefore it would be difficult to ensure a  clean kill   something the rspca accepts is the intention of those shooting for sport   it said.  animals hit but not killed would without doubt be caused to suffer unnecessarily   said the statement. mike berger  wildlife director of the texas parks and wildlife department  said current hunting statutes did not cover net or remote hunting. he said state laws on hunting only covered  regulated animals  such as native deer and bird species. as such there was nothing to stop mr underwood letting people hunt  unregulated  imported animals and wild pigs. mr underwood also lets people come in person to the ranch to hunt and shoot game animals.
chancellor rallies labour voters gordon brown has issued a rallying cry to supporters  warning the  stakes are too high  to stay at home or protest vote in the next general election.  the chancellor said the poll - expected to fall on 5 may - would give a  clear and fundamental  choice between labour investment and tory cuts. he told his party s spring conference the tories must not be allowed to win. the conservatives and lib dems insisted that voters faced higher taxes and means-testing under labour.  to a packed audience at gateshead s sage centre  mr brown accused shadow chancellor oliver letwin of plotting cuts that were the equivalent of sacking every teacher  gp and nurse in the country. laying into the conservative s record in government he said:  i give you this promise - with labour  britain will never return to the mistakes of erm and 10% inflation  15% interest rates  £3bn in lost reserves  250 000 repossessed  one million in negative equity and three million unemployed.  never again tory boom and bust.   this will be the central dividing line at the election  between a conservative party taking britain back and planning deep cuts of £35bn in our services  and a labour government taking britain forward  which on a platform of stability will reform and renew our hospitals  schools and public services and  i am proud to say  spend by 2008 £60bn more.  turning to the economy  the chancellor promised to continue economic stability and growth in a third term in power.  he also pledged to continue the fight against child and pensioner poverty. and he promised help to get young people on the property ladder.  my message to the thousands of young couples waiting to obtain their first home is that housing is rightly now at the centre of our coming manifesto   he said.  and the next labour government will match our low mortgage rates with a new first-time buyers  initiative.  in the speech  which prompted a standing ovation  he also promised to end teenage unemployment within the next five years.  he also highlighted plans for 100% debt relief for the world s poorest countries  a national minimum wage for 16 and 17-year-olds  the creation of a network of children s centres and flexibility in maternity leave. responding to the speech  shadow chief secretary to the treasury  george osborne  said:  this was more talk from gordon brown.  we ve heard it all before. instead of talking about the future he kept on talking about the past.  he completely failed to say which taxes he would put up to fill the black hole in his spending plans.  there will be a simple choice at the election - value for money and lower taxes with the conservatives  or more waste and higher taxes under tony blair and gordon brown.   liberal democrat shadow chancellor vince cable warned the picture was not as rosy as mr brown would like to portray it.  for all his trumpeting of labour s management of the economy  gordon brown s record is very mixed   he said.  gordon brown has created a system of massive centralisation and bureaucracy  a system which subjects millions of people to means testing  and a system of taxation which is extremely complex.  for all his positive words  gordon brown is faced with economic problems looming on the horizon  not least the unprecedented levels of personal debt facing the nation.  also in gateshead  the prime minister took questions sent in by e-mail  text message and telephone as part of labour s attempt to engage the public in their campaign. mr blair told the audience he believed the iraq war would have made britain a safer place if its emerging democracy succeeded and that he wanted to bring troops home as soon as possible  but not before the job was done. he also said he wanted to carry on as pm  because i still think that there are big changes our country needs .
singer ian brown  in gig arrest  former stone roses singer ian brown was arrested after a fight during a concert in san francisco on tuesday  his spokesman has said.  a fan jumped on stage and attacked the singer  who then became involved in a fracas with a security guard  fiction records spokesman paul smernicki said. he said brown was arrested at his hotel after the show at the great american music hall but released without charge. san francisco police said they could find no record of his arrest. mr smernicki said he had been told a fan  rugby-tackled  the singer during the gig  which resulted in  pushing and shoving .  brown then got into a brawl with another man who tried to restrain him - without realising he was a security guard  mr smernicki added. the star went off for 15 minutes before returning to finish his set. police took witness statements and apprehended brown at his hotel  mr smernicki said. but he was released without charge and  as far as we re aware  that s the end of it   mr smernicki added. a spokesperson for the san francisco police department said he may have been detained but they could find no record of the incident. brown  42  was lead singer with the stone roses  one of the most seminal bands in british rock  until they split in 1996. he has since forged a successful solo career  scoring nine uk top 30 singles since 1998. in 1998  he was sentenced to four months in jail for using threatening behaviour towards an aeroplane captain and stewardess.
wenger offers mutu hope arsenal boss arsene wenger would consider signing adrian mutu once the striker has served his drugs ban.  mutu was sacked by chelsea on friday after testing positive for cocaine - a move wenger has backed. but he said:  i don t even wonder if that could happen because i think he will be suspended for a long period.  but once he has served his suspension  he has the right again to start from zero. i would then meet the player and see what he tells me.  mutu faces a ban of between six months and two years when the football association decides on his punishment. chelsea decided to act before his case was heard and sacked the striker on grounds of gross misconduct after it was revealed that he had failed a drug test.  but mutu has hit out at the club s decision  saying:  chelsea have destroyed me.  he told the sunday mirror:  i don t know what i m going to do. i am shocked and surprised by their decision.  i didn t expect them to pay me while i was suspended but i never thought they would sack me either.  why didn t they wait to do this  now my career is in ruins.  i might as well walk away from football. what is there left for me    chelsea have been criticised for their stance  with the professional footballers  association accusing the club of failing in their duty of care to the player. and mutu agreed  adding:  it is unfair. if they were going to sack me they should have done it afterwards.  why did they go public  to make an example of me  it makes it very difficult for me now.
domain system opens door to scams a system to make it easier to create website addresses using alphabets like cyrillic could open a back door for scammers  a trade body has warned.  the internationalised domain names system has been a work in progress for years and has recently been approved by the internet engineering task force. but the uk internet forum (ukif) is concerned that the system will let scammers create fake sites more easily. the problem lies in the computer codes used to represent language.  registering names that look like that of legitimate companies but lead users to fake sites designed to steal passwords and credit card details could become a whole lot easier for determined scammers  says stephen dyer  director of ukif. domain names are the  real language  addresses of websites  rather than their internet protocol address  which is a series of numbers. they are used so people can more easily navigate the web. so-called ascii codes are used to represent european languages but for other languages a hybrid of a system called unicode is used. so  for example  website paypal could now be coded using a mixture of the latin alphabet and the russian alphabet. the resulting domain as displayed to the users would look identical to the real site as a russian  a  look just like an english  a . but the computer code would be different  and the site it would lead users to could be a fake. this is more than just a theory. a fake paypal.com has already been registered with net domain giant verisign by someone who has followed the debate around the internationalised domain name (idn) system  said mr dyer. as the idea was to prove a point rather than be malicious the fake domain has now been handed back to paypal but it sets a worrying precedent  mr dyer said.  although the idn problem is well known in technical circles  the commercial world is totally unaware how easily their websites can be faked   said mr dyer.   it is important to alert users that there is a new and invisible and almost undetectable way of diverting them to what looks like a perfectly genuine site   he added. there are solutions. for instance  browsers could spot domains that use mixed characters and display them in different colours as a warning to users. mr dyer acknowledged that it would be a huge undertaking to update all the world s browsers. another solution  to introduce idn-disabled browsers could be a case of  throwing out the baby with the bath water   he said. centr  the council of european national top level domain registries  agrees.  a rush to introduce idn-disabled browsers into the marketplace is an overly-zealous step that will harm public confidence in idns - a technology that is desperately needed in the non-english speaking world   the organisation said in a statement.
games win for blu-ray dvd format the next-generation dvd format blu-ray is winning more supporters than its rival  according to its backers.  blu-ray  backed by 100 firms including sony  is competing against toshiba and nec-backed hd-dvd to be the format of choice for future films and games. the blu-ray association said on thursday that games giants electronic arts and vivendi would both support its dvd format. the next generation of dvds will hold high-definition video and sound. this offers incredible 3d-like quality of pictures which major hollywood studios and games publishers are extremely keen to exploit in the coming year. in a separate press conference at the consumer electronics show in las vegas  toshiba announced that dvd players for its technology would be on the market by the end of 2005.   as we move from standard definition video images to high-definition images  we have a much greater need for storage   richard doherty  from panasonic s hollywood laboratories  one of the pioneers of blu-ray  told the bbc news website.  so by utilising blue laser-based technology we can make an optical laser disc that can hold six times as much as today s dvd.  a blu-ray disc will be able to store 50gb of high-quality data  while toshiba s hd-dvd will hold 30gb. mr doherty added that it was making sure the discs could satisfy all high-definition needs  including the ability to record onto the dvds and smaller discs to fit into camcorders. both toshiba and blu-ray are hopeful that the emerging dvd format war  akin to the betamax and vhs fight in the 1980s  can be resolved over the next year when next-generation dvd players start to come out. when players do come out  they will be able to play standard dvds too  which is good news for those who have huge libraries of current dvds.  but the support from vivendi and electronics arts is a big boost to blu-ray in the battle for supremacy.  gaming is a $20 billion industry worldwide  so is as crucial as the film industry in terms of money to be made.  the technical requirement for game development today demands more advanced optical-disc technologies   said michael heilmann  chief technology officer for vivendi universal.  blu-ray offers the capacity  performance and high-speed internet connectivity to take us into the future of gaming.  ea  a leading games developer and publisher  added that the delivery of high-definition games of the future was vital and blu-ray had the capacity  functionality and interactivity needed for the kinds of projects it was planning. sony recently announced it would be using the technology in its next generation of playstations. mr doherty said gamers were  ravenous  for high-quality graphics and technology for the next generation of titles.  gamers  especially those working on pcs  are always focused on more capacity to deliver textures  deeper levels  for delivering higher-resolution playback.   he added:  the focus for games moving forward is on increased immersion.   gaming companies really like to focus on creating a world which involves creating complicated 3d models and textures and increasing the resolution  increasing the frame rate - all of these are part of getting a more immersive experience.  fitting these models on current dvd technologies means compressing the graphics so much that much of this quality is lost. as games move to more photo-real capability  the current technology is limiting.  they are thrilled at the advanced capacity to start to build these immersive environments   said mr doherty. currently  graphics-intensive pc games also require multiple discs for installation. high-definition dvds will cut down on that need. likewise  consoles rely on single discs  so dvds that can hold six times more data mean much better  high-resolution games. blu-ray has already won backing from major hollywood studios  such as mgm studios  disney  and buena vista  as well as top technology firms like dell  lg  samsung and phillips amongst others. while toshiba s hd-dvd technology has won backing from paramount  universal and warner bros.  the real world benefits (of hd-dvd) are apparent and obvious   said jim cardwell  president of warner home video. mr cardwell added that rapid time to market and dependability were significant factors in choosing to go with hd-dvd. both formats are courting microsoft to be the format of choice for the next generation xbox  but discussions are still on-going. next generation dvds will also be able to store images and other data. ces is the largest consumer electronics show in the world  and runs from 6 to 9 january.
tories outlining policing plans local communities would be asked to go to the polls to elect their own area police commissioner  under plans unveiled by the conservatives.  party leader michael howard said the new role would replace  inconspicuous  police authorities. he said the new office would not supersede the job of a chief constable. the lib dems said the plan could let extreme groups run policing  while labour criticised  extravagant  tory promises on policing.  responding to the plans  the chairman of the police federation of england and wales  which represents rank and file officers  said it was essential operational independence was retained.  jan berry said:  it is a service  not a political football to be kicked around every time an election approaches.  these plans could result in those with extreme political views dictating what actually happens on the ground   she warned. outlining his crime manifesto  mr howard said elected police commissioners would be more accountable than police authorities which are made up of local councillors and magistrates.  the commissioner will have the powers which existing police authorities have   he told bbc radio 4 s today programme.  the trouble is  and it s no reflection on the people who are on the police authority - they are good people - but hardly anyone knows who they are.  mr howard said the authorities were not  providing the local accountability that we want to see  and that elected police commissioners would be more visible.  critics fear the move could hand control of the police to single-issue campaigners who would ignore the needs of the wider community. lord harris  who sits on the executive of association of police authorities  said the plans seemed to suggest chief constables should be told what to do by a single politician.  that is overturning nearly 200 years of the way in which we have organised policing in this country to avoid the politicisation of policing decisions   he said.  liberal democrat home affairs spokesman mark oaten said the plan was dangerous and  could create conflict between chief constables and elected officials . mr oaten said local people had too little control over policing but a far better solution would be for elected councillors to draw up a  minimum policing guarantee  with their chief constables. a labour party spokesman criticised michael howard s record  saying police numbers had fallen by 1 132 when he was home secretary. he said:  today the tories are making more extravagant promises on the police without making clear how they would pay for them  other than through fantasy savings to the asylum system.  the tories insists the commissioner role would not be like that of an american sheriff. other tory law and order plans include building more prisons and making criminals serve full jail sentences.
qantas considers offshore option australian airline qantas could transfer as many as 7 000 jobs out of its home country as it seeks to save costs  according to newspaper reports.  chief executive geoff dixon was quoted by the australian newspaper as saying the carrier could no longer afford to remain  all-australian . unions criticised the possible move - which may affect cabin and maintenance staff - saying qantas was profitable. more than 90% of the airline s staff are based in australia.  qantas confirmed it was looking at whether it might recruit and source products overseas - potentially through joint ventures - but said it would continue to create jobs in australia.  despite making a record australian dollars 648m ($492m) profit last year  qantas has argued that it needs to make considerable savings if it is to remain competitive.  we re going to have to get the lowest cost structure we can and that willmean sourcing things more and more from overseas   the newspaper quoted qantas chief executive geoff dixon as saying. early this year  qantas increased the number of flight attendants based in london from 370 to 870. if qantas were to follow the lead of other airlines moving staff  offshore  7 000 jobs could shift overseas  the newspaper reported. in a statement  qantas said it was looking to build its operations overseas. however  it stressed this would not result in large scale redundancies in its home market  where most of its 35 000 staff are employed.  we are totally committed to continuing to grow jobs in australia   mr dixon said.  we are  however  operating in a global market and there is no room for complacency simply because we are currently profitable and successful.   unions reacted angrily to the reported disclosure  arguing that qantas was profitable and did not need to take such action.  we could understand if qantas was a struggling airline about to go under   michael mijatov  international division secretary of the flight attendants association  told agence france presse.  qantas announced a record profit last year and is on course this year for an even greater profit so it is totally unnecessary.  in an effort to meet the challenge posed by low cost carriers  qantas sought a tie-up with air new zealand last year however  the deal was thrown out by the new zealand high court on competition grounds.
sella wants michalak recall former france centre philippe sella believes coach bernard laporte must recall frederic michalak to give his side any chance of beating ireland.  sella admitted he had been impressed by current fly-half yann delaigue in the rbs six nations to date. but he told bbc sport:  michalak is the answer both now and for the future. delaigue deserved his chance but the time has come to bring back michalak.  he does have weaknesses but has the all-round game to upset ireland.  the 22-year-old michalak has spent much of the tournament on the bench after delaigue impressed for castres early in the season. with michalak overlooked  the french stuttered to narrow wins over scotland and then england before ironically playing their best rugby in the defeat to wales.  the wales game was amazing to watch but never did i think the french could lose that game at half-time   said sella.   their only mistakes were that they didn t score enough points in the first half and were a little bit less focused in the second... but only a little bit.  sella  however  insisted the pressure had eased on the under-fire laporte  despite the defeat at the stade de france.  this season is very important for shaping a team for the 2007 world cup   said sella   which laporte is doing very well. the french get better every game.  it s difficult  though  when you change a team and you change your tactics as everything has to gel.  but he has the players and the talent to take them all the way to world cup victory.  as a result  it is important that people give him time. it may not seem good now that we re not winning the grand slam but no one will care in two years time if we re world champions.   the majority of media criticism centred on the way in which france produced a performance devoid of running rugby in their opening two games. but while sella admitted he liked the more flowing style employed against wales  he said  the win was most important .  winning is all that matters   he added.  ok  the flair may not have been so good  but the discipline  organisation and defence was there  which are all important ahead of 2007.  france play what sella believes is their hardest game of the six nations against ireland in dublin on saturday 12 march. the french go into the game as clear underdogs. but sella added:  people forget that france can still win the six nations and they ll be focused on that.  but ireland will be going for even more in front of their home crowd. it s going to be tough.
big guns ease through in san jose top-seeded americans andy roddick and andre agassi survived minor scares to reach the last eight of the sap open.  agassi endured early problems against left-handed dane kenneth carlsen before sealing a 7-5 6-1 victory. and world number three roddick dropped a set to korean player hyung-taik lee  before pulling out a 6-3 3-6 6-2 win in san jose  california. seventh seed jurgen melzer came through 6-3 6-3 against xavier malisse - winner in delray beach last week. frenchman cyril saulnier  meanwhile  fired 19 aces to secure a 6-1 7-6 win over czech qualifier tomas zib.  roddick broke a racket in frustration in the third game of the second set. and afterwards was unimpressed with his form.  i m not playing great   he said.  but i m through and i m going to keep battling.  a lot of people are under the assumption that it s easy to play well every week and it s not.  it is the 12th time in 13 appearances at the event that agassi  now 34  has progressed to the quarter-final stage. he came from 0-40 down in the opening game to hold serve and gradually wore carlsen down after attacking his backhand. agassi also employed several lobs and charged to the net to unsettle the 31-year-old dane  ranked 88th in the world.  as the match went on  i got real patient and waited for my opportunities and felt pretty good   said agassi.
parker s saxophone heads auction a saxophone belonging to legendary jazz musician charlie parker is expected to fetch up to $1m (£535 000) at an auction of jazz memorabilia next month.  the sale  at guernsey s auction house in new york  will feature instruments from other musicians including john coltrane and benny goodman. other items will include an evening gown belonging to ella fitzgerald. organisers said the auction was the first in the us to be devoted to items belonging to jazz musicians.  other items that will be auctioned include unreleased tape recordings of music by parker as well as handwritten sheet music by jazz composers john coltrane and theolonius monk. among the instruments in the sale will be a trumpet which belonged to dizzy gillespie  which is expected to fetch around $500 000 (£267 000)  as well as jj johnson s trombone and a vibraphone which beloned to lionel hampton. works of art by musicians including miles davis and bruni sablan will also be featured. the proceeds from the auction  which will take place on 20 february  will go towards several organisations including the john coltrane foundation  a foundation set up in memory of benny goodman  and the red cross.
moore questions captaincy brian moore believes the england captain should not be a full-back.  jason robinson has led the team during their opening three defeats in the six nations tournament  in the absence of fly-half jonny wilkinson. the world champions have struggled since the retirement of former captain martin johnson  a lock forward. and former england captain moore told the bbc:  full-backs are too far away from the action. that s not a reflection on robinson personally.  he added:  i just think the point of influence needs to move closer to the pack - which is  after all  where games usually start and finish.  moore says a lack of cohesion in the forwards is one of the reasons why england have lost against wales  france and ireland in this year s tournament.  assertiveness in the pack isn t there  we re not getting enough people into the breakdowns   he explained.  wer e not getting quick ball  which means the backs are being stifled. their creativity depends on quick ball and we re not getting that.   with injuries depriving him of key players like wilkinson  coach andy robinson has given youngsters such as harry ellis and jamie noon a chance. and moore believes the last two games against italy and scotland are a good opportunity to experiment further.  the problem is the players that are around to replace the icons which have been lost because of retirement and injury don t have the requisite experience   moore added.  you can t do anything about that but play them. there are players who have been knocking on the door  it s time for them to be looked at in these last two games because there s nothing on them.  we then go into next season with a greater certainty of who can and cannot handle the pressure of international rugby.
rings of steel combat net attacks gambling is hugely popular  especially with tech-savvy criminals.  many extortionists are targeting net-based betting firms and threatening to cripple their websites with deluges of data unless a ransom is paid. but now deep defences are being put in place by some of the uk s biggest net firms to stop these attacks. increasing numbers of attacks and the huge amounts of data being used to try to bump a site off the web are prompting firms to adopt the measures.  net firms are realising that it s not just about anti-virus and firewalls   said paul king  chief security architect at cisco.  there are more things that can be done in the network to protect data centres.  mr king said the only way to properly combat these so-called distributed denial-of-service attacks was with intelligent net-based systems. many of the gambling sites suffering ddos attacks are in offshore data and hosting centres  so any large scale data flood could knock out access to many more sites than just the one the criminals were targeting  said mr king. this overspill effect was only likely to grow as attacks grow in size and scale.  malcolm seagrave  security expert at energis  said the most common types of attacks hit sites with 10 megabytes of data over short periods of time. bigger attacks sending down 200 megabytes of traffic or more were rarely seen  he said.  it does feel like they are turning the dial because you see this traffic gradually growing   he said.  so far there have been no attacks involving gigabytes of data  said mr seagrave. however  he added that it was only a matter of time before such large attacks were mounted. maria capella  spokeswoman for net provider pipex  said that when ddos attacks were at their height  customers were getting hit every four to five days. the defences being put in place constantly monitor the streams of data flowing across networks and pluck out the traffic destined for target sites.  it s about understanding what s genuine traffic and keeping attack traffic from going to the site   she said.  we study the profile of their traffic and as soon as we see an anomaly in the profile that s when we start to get the backbone engineering boys to see if we are going to sustain an attack   said ms capella. this traffic can be hard to spot because ddos attacks typically use thousands of computers in many different countries  each participating machine only sends a small part of the entire data flood.  typically these computers have been infected by a virus or worm which reports its success and the net address of compromised machines back to the malicious hacker or hi-tech criminal that set off the virus. hijacked computers are known as zombies or  bots and collections of them are called  bot nets. many spammers rent out  bot nets to help them anonymously send junk mail.  most of the zombies are based outside the country that hosts the target site so getting the attacking pcs shut off can be difficult. often pipex and other net suppliers do get advance notice that an attack is about to happen.  the serious players tend to precede an attack with some kind of ransom e-mail   said ms capella.  we ask  as part of the service we provide  that customers notify us of anything they have in advance that would give us forewarning.  once an attack is spotted dedicated net hardware takes over to remove the attack traffic and ensure that sites stay up. energis took a similar approach  said mr seagrave.  we have technology out there that allows us to detect attacks in minutes rather than let network engineers spend hours pulling the information together   said mr seagrave. also net firms were starting to work more closely together on the problem of ddos attacks and pool information about where they are coming from. information gathered on attacks and where they originated has led to some arrests. he said energis also did its own intelligence work to get in insight into which sites criminal gangs plan to target.  we have people in places where they shouldn t be  monitoring tech sites   he said. sometimes though  he said  spotting the next victim was easy.  you can see them going alphabetically through the list with the gambling sites  trying one after another   said mr seagrave.
classy henman makes winning start tim henman opened his 2005 campaign with a 6-1 7-5 victory over argentine david nalbandian at the kooyong classic exhibition tournament on wednesday.  the british number one will next play roger federer at the australian open warm-up event on friday. the world number one beat gaston gaudio 5-7 6-1 6-4  before andre agassi saw off chilean olympic gold medalist nicolas massu 6-1 7-6 (7-4). andy roddick beat ivan ljubicic  who replaced paradorn srichaphan  6-1 6-4. henman made an impressive start to the year  only faltering against nalbandian when serving for the match at 5-4. but the briton regained his composure to win the next two games for only his second win in six matches against the argentine.  it s a great start to the year - just what i was looking for   henman told his website.  over the years i ve found david very difficult to play against.   he returns serve very well and he s deceptively effective from the baseline  so sometimes it can be difficult to execute my gameplan well enough against him to get the right result.  beating somebody of his stature is always good for the confidence and it bodes well at the beginning of the year.  henman also revealed the extent of the back problems he suffered in the off-season.  i m not the most flexible and at the end of the year i was pretty exhausted and wanted to have a couple of weeks where i didn t do anything   said henman.  when i started training again it really  really seized up. as much as i enjoyed the two weeks off i don t think it s so productive.  federer dropped a tight first set against 2004 french open champion gaudio  but was content with his game.  it was about getting used to the surface   he said.   the conditions are much quicker than doha  my timing was ok  but i could have served better.  all in all i m happy with the match  and i won it - that s a good sign. now i have a day off and hopefully play better the next match.  agassi was delighted with victory over massu in his first match for over two months.  i felt pretty good   said the american.  i liked the way the match played out and  maybe excluding a few second serve returns  i felt like i was doing most things pretty darn well for the first match.
spears seeks aborted tour payment singer britney spears is suing eight insurance companies that have refused to reimburse her for cancelling her 2004 world tour.  the pop star cancelled her onyx hotel tour last june after suffering a knee injury during a video shoot. she is now seeking to be reimbursed for the tour s £5m ($9.3m) costs in a claim filed at new york state supreme court. seven london-based companies and an eighth paris firm have been given up to 30 days to respond to the complaint.  the 22-year-old star initially missed a number of shows on the 82-date tour after injuring her knee during a show in illinois last march. but she was rushed to hospital and needed surgery after a later incident while filming a video for her song outrageous  leading her to cancel the rest of the tour  including dates in china.  she obviously took a wrong step and blew out her knee   a jive spokeswoman said at the time.  it was an old dance injury.  the legal submission described spears as  one of the most recognised performers in her industry . the onyx hotel tour was cited as  a highly crafted production which included the well-known music and dancing of spears  supported by elaborate costumes  complex choreography as well as cutting-edge video production  lighting and other effects . in september spears married kevin federline  who had been a dancer on the aborted tour.
blogger grounded by her airline a us airline attendant is fighting for her job after she was suspended over postings on her blog  or online diary.  queen of the sky  otherwise known as ellen simonetti  evolved into an anonymous semi-fictional account of life in the sky. but after she posted pictures of herself in uniform  delta airlines suspended her indefinitely without pay. ms simonetti was told her suspension was a result of  inappropriate  images. delta airlines declined to comment.   i was really shocked  i had no warning   ms simonetti told bbc news online.  i never thought i would get in trouble because of the blog. i thought if they had a problem  someone would have said something before taking action.  the issue has highlighted concerns amongst the growing blogging community about conflicts of interest  employment law and free speech on personal websites. ms simonetti was suspended on 25 september pending an investigation and has since lodged a complaint with the us equal employment opportunity commission (eeoc). a spokesperson for delta airlines told bbc news online:  all i can tell you is we do not discuss internal employee issues with the media.  she added she could not say whether a similar situation over personal websites had occurred in the past.  ms simonetti started her personal blog in january to help her get over her mother s death. she had ensured she made no mention of which airline she worked for  and created fictional names for cities and companies. the airline s name was changed to anonymous airline and the city in which she was based was called quirksville. a large part of the blog contained fictional stories because queen of the sky developed over the months as a character in her own right  according to ms simonetti.  the images were taken from a digital camera she had inherited from her mother.  we often take pictures on flight or on layovers. i just though why not include them on my blog for fun.  i never meant it as something to harm my company and don t understand how they think it did harm them   ms simonetti said. she has also claimed that pictures of male delta airline employees in uniform are freely available on the web. of the 10 or so images on the site  only one showed ms simonetti s flight  wings .  they did not tell me which pictures they had a problem with. i am just assuming it was the one of me posing on seats where my skirt rode up   she said. the images were removed as soon as she learned she had been suspended. as far as ms simonetti knows  there is no company anti-blogging policy. there is guidance which suggests the company uniform cannot be used without approval from management  but use in personal pictures on websites is unclear.  jeffrey matsuura  director of the law and technology programme at the university of dayton  said personal websites can be hazardous for both employers and their employees.  there are many examples of employees who have presented some kind of material online that have gotten them in trouble with employers   he said. it was crucial that any policy about what was and what was not acceptable was expressed clearly  was reasonable  and enforced fairly in company policy.  you have to remember that as an employee  you don t have total free speech anymore   he said. mr matsuura added that some companies actively encouraged employees to blog.  one of the areas where it does become a problem is that they encourage this when it suits them  but they may not be particularly clear when they [employees] do cross the line.  he speculated that delta might be concerned that the fictional content on the blog may be linked back to the airline after the images of ms simonetti in uniform were posted.  whether or not that is successful will depend on what exactly is prohibited  and whether you can reasonably say this content now crosses that line   he said. ms simonetti said her suspension has caused two of her friends to discontinue their blogs. one of them was asked to stop blogging by his company before any action was taken.  if they had asked me just take down the blog  i would have done it  but that was not been given to me as an option   she said.  this blogging thing is obviously a new problem for employers and they need to get a policy about it. if i had known it would cost me my job  i would not have done that.
weak dollar trims cadbury profits the world s biggest confectionery firm  cadbury schweppes  has reported a modest rise in profits after the weak dollar took a bite out of its results.  underlying pre-tax profits rose 1% to £933m ($1.78bn) in 2004  but would have been 8% higher if currency movements were stripped out. the owner of brands such as dairy milk  dr pepper and snapple generates more than 80% of its sales outside the uk. cadbury said it was confident it would hit its targets for 2005.  while the external commercial environment remains competitive  we are confident that we have the strategy  brands and people to deliver within our goal ranges in 2005   said chief executive todd stitzer.  the modest profit rise had been expected by analysts after the company said in december that the poor summer weather had hit soft drink sales in europe.  cadbury said its underlying sales were up by 4% in 2004. growth was helped by its confectionery brands - including cadbury  trident and halls - which enjoyed a  successful  year  with like-for-like sales up 6%. drinks sales were up 2% with strong growth in us carbonated soft drinks  led by dr pepper and diet drinks  offset by the weaker sales in europe. cadbury added that its fuel for growth cost-cutting programme had saved £75m in 2004  bringing total cost savings to £100m since the scheme began in mid-2003. the programme is set to close 20% of the group s factories and shed 10% of the workforce. cadbury schweppes employs more than 50 000 people worldwide  with about 7 000 in the uk.
campbell: e-mail row  silly fuss  ex-no 10 media chief alastair campbell is at the centre of a new political row over an e-mail containing a four-letter outburst aimed at bbc journalists.  mr campbell sent the missive by mistake to bbc2 s newsnight after it sought to question his role in labour s controversial poster campaign. he later contacted the show saying the original e-mail had been sent in error and that it was all a  silly fuss . mr campbell has recently re-joined labour s election campaign.  the e-mail was revealed the day after peter mandelson  former labour minister and now a european commissioner  warned the bbc to steer away from  demonising  mr campbell. mr campbell messaged newsnight after the programme investigated claims that labour s advertising agency tbwa was blaming him for controversy over its campaign posters. the images  including one of flying pigs and another of what critics claim depicted tory leader michael howard as fagin  prompted accusations of anti-semitism  claims denied by labour.  mr campbell s e-mail  which was apparently intended for a party official  suggested they should get trevor beattie  tbwa s boss  to issue a statement. in it  he said:  just spoke to trev. think tbwa shd give statement to newsnight saying party and agency work together well and nobody here has spoken to standard. posters done by by tbwa according to political brief. now fuck off and cover something important you twats!  the e-mail was sent by mistake to newsnight journalist andrew mcfadyen. realising his error  mr campbell then e-mailed mr mcfadyen pointing out the mistake  but suggesting presenter jeremy paxman would have seen the funny side.  he said:  not very good at this e-mail blackberry malarkey. just looked at log of sent messages  have realised e-mail meant for colleagues at tbwa has gone to you. for the record  first three sentences of email spot on. no row between me and trevor.  posters done by them according to our brief. i dreamt up flying pigs. pigs not great but okay in the circs of tories promising tax cuts and spending rises with the same money. tbwa made production.  campbell swears shock. final sentence of earlier e-mail probably a bit colourful and personal considering we have never actually met but i m sure you share the same sense of humour as your star presenter mr p.  never known such a silly fuss since the last silly fuss but there we go. must look forward not back.   later the prime minister s spokesman was asked by journalists about his view on mr campbell s use of abusive language. the spokesman said:  the person you are referring to is capable of speaking for himself and he no longer works in government.  foreign secretary jack straw said he had always had  very good and polite relations  with mr campbell  who he described as  very talented . but on the former spin doctor s use of language  mr straw said:  i do know the odd journalist who has occasionally used the odd word that would probably be inappropriate in some circumstances. maybe i mix with the wrong kind of journalists.  liam fox  tory co-chairman  said the return of mr campbell was a sign of new  sinister and underhand tactics  by labour.
holmes wins  2004 top tv moment  sprinter kelly holmes  olympic victory has been named the top television moment of 2004 in a bbc poll.  holmes  800m gold medal victory beat favourite moments from drama  comedy and factual programmes  as voted by television viewers. natasha kaplinsky s strictly come dancing win was top entertainment moment and a little britain breast feeding sketch won the comedy prize. the 2004 tv moments will be shown on bbc one at 2000 gmt on wednesday. double gold medal winner holmes topped the best sports moment category  beating maria sharapova s wimbledon triumph and matthew pinsent s rowing victory at the olympics.  she then went on to take the overall prize of golden tv moment. the sight of former royal correspondent jennie bond with dozens of rats crawling over her in itv s i m a celebrity get me out of here was named best factual entertainment moment. michael buerk s return to ethiopia  20 years after originally reporting its famine  topped the factual category for bbc programme this world. long-running soap eastenders won the best popular drama moment title when character dot confided in den watts that she was unwell.
format wars could  confuse users  technology firms sony  philips  matsushita and samsung are developing a common way to stop people pirating digital music and video.  the firms want to make a system that ensures files play on the hardware they make but also thwarts illegal copying. the move could mean more confusion for consumers already faced by many different  and conflicting  content control systems  experts warned. they say there are no guarantees the system will even prevent piracy.  currently many online stores wrap up downloadable files in an own-brand control system that means they can only be played on a small number of media players. systems that limit what people can do with the files they download are known as digital rights management systems. by setting up the alliance to work on a common control system  the firms said they hope to end this current fragmentation of file formats. in a joint statement the firms said they wanted to let consumers enjoy  appropriately licensed video and music on any device  independent of how they originally obtained that content . the firms hope that it will also make it harder for consumers to make illegal copies of the music  movies and other digital content they have bought. called the marlin joint development association  the alliance will define basic specifications that every device made by the electronics firms will conform to. marlin will be built on technology from rights management firm intertrust as well as an earlier drm system developed by a group known as the coral consortium.  the move is widely seen as a way for the four firms to decide their own destiny on content control systems instead of having to sign up for those being pushed by apple and microsoft. confusingly for consumers  the technology that comes out of the alliance will sit alongside the content control systems of rival firms such as microsoft and apple.  in many ways the different drm systems are akin to the different physical formats  such as betamax and vhs  that consumers have seen in the past   said ian fogg  personal technology and broadband analyst at jupiter research.  the difference is that it is very fragmented   he said.  it s not a two-horse race  it s a five  six  seven or even eight-horse race  mr fogg said consumers had to be very careful when buying digital content to ensure that it would play on the devices they own. he said currently there were even incompatibilities within drm families. although initiatives such as microsoft s  plays for sure  program could help remove some of the uncertainty  he said  life was likely to be confusing for consumers for some time to come.  shelley taylor  analyst and author of a report about online music services  said the locks and limits on digital files were done to maximise the cash that firms can make from consumers. apple s itunes service was a perfect example of this  she said.  although itunes has been hugely successful  apple could not justify its existence if it did not help sell all those ipods   she said.  she said rampant competition between online music services  of which there are now 230 according to recent figures  could drive more openness and freer file formats.  it always works out that consumer needs win out in the long run   she said   and the services that win in the long run are the ones that listen to consumers earliest.  ms taylor said the limits legal download services place on files could help explain the continuing popularity of file-sharing systems that let people get hold of pirated pop.  people want portability   she said   and with peer-to-peer they have 100% portability.  cory doctorow  european co-ordinator for the electronic frontier foundation which campaigns for consumers on many cyber-rights issues  expressed doubts that the marlin system would achieve its aims.  not one of these systems has ever prevented piracy or illegal copying   he said. he said many firms readily admit that their drm systems are little protection against skilled attackers such as the organised crime gangs that are responsible for most piracy. instead  said mr doctorow  drm systems were intended to control the group that electronics firms have most hold over - consumers.  the studios and labels perceive an opportunity to sell you your media again and again - the ipod version  the auto version  the american and uk version  the ringtone version  and so on.
jack cunningham to stand down veteran labour mp and former cabinet minister jack cunningham has said he will stand down at the next election.  one of the few blair-era ministers to serve under jim callaghan  he was given the agriculture portfolio when labour regained power in 1997. mr cunningham went on to become tony blair s  cabinet enforcer . he has represented the constituency now known as copeland since 1970. mr blair said he was a  huge figure  in labour and a  valued  personal friend .  during labour s long period in opposition  mr cunningham held a number of shadow roles including foreign affairs  the environment and as trade spokesman. as agriculture minister he caused controversy when he decided to ban beef on the bone in the wake of fears over bse. he quit the government in 1999 and in recent years has served as the chairman of the all-party committee on lords reform and has been a loyal supporter of the government from the backbenches.
junk e-mails on relentless rise spam traffic is up by 40%  putting the total amount of e-mail that is junk up to an astonishing 90%.  the figures  from e-mail management firm email systems  will alarm firms attempting to cope with the amount of spam in their in-boxes. while virus traffic has slowed down  denial of service attacks are on the increase according to the firm. virus mail accounts for just over 15% of all e-mail traffic analysis by the firm has found.  it is no longer just multi-nationals that are in danger of so-called denial of service attacks  in which websites are bombarded by requests for information and rendered inaccessible. email systems refers to a small uk-based engineering firm  which received a staggering 12 million e-mails in january. the type of spam currently being sent has subtlety altered in the last few months  according to email systems analysis. half of spam received since christmas has been health-related with gambling and porn also on the increase. scam mails  offering ways to make a quick buck  have declined by 40%.  january is clearly a month when consumers are less motivated to purchase financial products or put money into dubious financial opportunities   said neil hammerton  managing director of email systems.  spammers seem to have adapted their output to reflect this  focussing instead on medically motivated and pornographic offers  presumably intentionally intended to coincide with what is traditionally considered to be the bleakest month in the calendar   he said.
robben and cole earn chelsea win cheslea salvaged a win against a battling portsmouth side just as it looked like the premiership leaders would have to settle for a point.  arjen robben curled in a late deflected left-footed shot from the right side of pompey s box to break the home side s brave resistance. chelsea had been continually frustrated but joe cole added a second with a 20-yard shot in injury-time. nigel quashie had pompey s best chance when his effort was tipped over. the fratton park crowd were in good voice as usual and  even though portsmouth more than held their own  chelsea still managed to carve out two early chances. striker didier drogba snapped in an angled shot to force home keeper shaka hislop into a smart save while an unmarked frank lampard had a strike blocked by arjan de zeeuw. but pompey chased  harried and unsettled a chelsea side as the south-coast side started to gain the upper hand and almost took the lead through quashie.  the midfielder struck a swerving long range shot which keeper petr cech tipped over at full stretch. pompey stretched arsenal to the limit recently and were providing a similarly tough obstacle to overcome for a chelsea team struggling to exert any pressure. velimir zajec s players stood firm as the visitors came out in lively fashion after the break but  just as they took a stranglehold of the match  the visitors launched a counter-attack. drogba spun to get a sight of goal and struck a fierce shot which rocked keeper hislop back as he blocked before arjan de zeeuw cleared the danger.  the home side were also left breathing a sigh of relief when a glen johnson header fell to gudjohnsen who had his back to goal in a crowded pompey goalmouth. the icelandic forward tried to acrobatically direct the ball into goal but put his effort over. but  just like against arsenal  portsmouth let in a late goal when robben s shot took a deflection off matthew taylor on its way past a wrong-footed hislop. and cole put a bit of gloss on a hard-fought win when he put a low shot into the bottom of the pompey net.  hislop  griffin  primus  de zeeuw  taylor  stone (cisse 76)  quashie (berkovic 83)  faye  o neil  kamara (fuller 65)  yakubu.  subs not used: berger  ashdown.  kamara.  cech  paulo ferreira  gallas  terry  johnson  duff  makelele  smertin (cole 73)  lampard  robben (geremi 81)  drogba (gudjohnsen 58).  subs not used: cudicini  bridge.  paulo ferreira  robben  lampard.  robben 79  cole 90.  20 210  a wiley (staffordshire).
labour mps  fears over squabbling if there is one thing certain to stiffen the spines of labour mps it is the prospect of losing their seats at a general election.  and it was largely that fear that led to tony blair and gordon brown being read the riot act during a meeting of the parliamentary labour party. the views expressed by both backbenchers and labour peers over the claimed squabbling between the two men starkly demonstrated the widely-held view within the labour party that the two most powerful figures in the government are jeopardising the next election. as one hugely-disgruntled backbencher said before the meeting:  it is time they realised it s not just my seat they are threatening but if they go on like this they could put the election in doubt.  it is a sentiment that is now running throughout the labour benches with mps eager to underline the message to their leaders to stop the squabbling and get on with the job at hand.  as paul flynn said:  what has deeply upset the party is in this time of all times  when we wanted to come together  we wanted to lead on the global issues  to change politics for the next decade  the whole thing was wrecked by a piece of childishness by the two main people in the party  two people we greatly respect.   stephen pound echoed the message  saying:  we know that the one thing that could entirely jeopardise what we are trying to achieve  not for the labour party but for this country  is the appearance of division. we remember the 1980s . they backed the suggestion that unless the squabbling stopped  the people briefing on behalf of the two men would be  named and shamed . the dressing down appears to have done the trick  with mr brown joining his alleged rival alan milburn - who the prime minister put in charge of election planning in mr brown s stead - and deputy prime minister john prescott at an election poster launch. but the effect of all this is to have achieved two things. firstly  nobody is attempting to suggest any more that the stories of the rift between the chancellor and the prime minister are fictions created by the media and authors. even mr prescott admitted that  had he still been a backbencher  he would have been giving mr blair and mr brown the same message.  secondly it has also underlined the view that the election campaign has  to all intents and purposes  kicked off. but whether the telling off and the subsequent change in behaviour by the two men will do any good - or can even be sustained through the campaign - remains to be seen.  even as the mps were expressing their fears it emerged that  while mr brown is in africa for a week  the prime minister is to deliver a keynote speech on election themes for a third term. and he is expected to repeat his recent insistence that the next manifesto will be  new  labour through and through. similarly  some were pointing out that the chancellor  during the election poster launch  once again refused to deny the claim that he told the prime minister he could never trust anything he said. none the less  what some believe now is that the effect of the warnings from the backbenchers will actually be to silence the brown camp  effectively strengthening the prime minister s hand. for example  will those brownite briefers suggest their man is unhappy at the prime minister s timing or subject matter  as may have been the case in the past  what all seem agreed on  however  is that this sniping simply cannot be allowed to go on through the election campaign. mind you  we have heard similar pledges before.
bbc poll indicates economic gloom citizens in a majority of nations surveyed in a bbc world service poll believe the world economy is worsening.  most respondents also said their national economy was getting worse. but when asked about their own family s financial outlook  a majority in 14 countries said they were positive about the future. almost 23 000 people in 22 countries were questioned for the poll  which was mostly conducted before the asian tsunami disaster. the poll found that a majority or plurality of people in 13 countries believed the economy was going downhill  compared with respondents in nine countries who believed it was improving. those surveyed in three countries were split. in percentage terms  an average of 44% of respondents in each country said the world economy was getting worse  compared to 34% who said it was improving. similarly  48% were pessimistic about their national economy  while 41% were optimistic. and 47% saw their family s economic conditions improving  as against 36% who said they were getting worse.  the poll of 22 953 people was conducted by the international polling firm globescan  together with the program on international policy attitudes (pipa) at the university of maryland.  while the world economy has picked up from difficult times just a few years ago  people seem to not have fully absorbed this development  though they are personally experiencing its effects   said pipa director steven kull.  people around the world are saying:  i m ok  but the world isn t .  there may be a perception that war  terrorism and religious and political divisions are making the world a worse place  even though that has not so far been reflected in global economic performance  says the bbc s elizabeth blunt.  the countries where people were most optimistic  both for the world and for their own families  were two fast-growing developing economies  china and india  followed by indonesia. china has seen two decades of blistering economic growth  which has led to wealth creation on a huge scale  says the bbc s louisa lim in beijing. but the results also may reflect the untrammelled confidence of people who are subject to endless government propaganda about their country s rosy economic future  our correspondent says. south korea was the most pessimistic  while respondents in italy and mexico were also quite gloomy. the bbc s david willey in rome says one reason for that result is the changeover from the lira to the euro in 2001  which is widely viewed as the biggest reason why their wages and salaries are worth less than they used to be. the philippines was among the most upbeat countries on prospects for respondents  families  but one of the most pessimistic about the world economy. pipa conducted the poll from 15 november 2004 to 3 january 2005 across 22 countries in face-to-face or telephone interviews. the interviews took place between 15 november 2004 and 5 january 2005. the margin of error is between 2.5 and 4 points  depending on the country. in eight of the countries  the sample was limited to major metropolitan areas.
us actor  found with gun residue  actor robert blake had gunshot residue on his hands and clothes the night his wife was shot dead  a court has heard.  but it may not have come from the shot that killed bonny lee bakley in 2001  mr blake s murder trial was told by criminalist steven dowell. mr dowell told a los angeles court the residue may have come from mr blake s revolver  his gun collection  his presence at the crime scene or police. the 71-year-old former star of us tv drama baretta has denied murder. mr blake said he found ms bakley  44  dead in a car after they left a restaurant.  he said he briefly returned to the restaurant to collect a gun he had left behind and discovered her body when he returned. the gun he collected was not the murder weapon. it could also have been picked up if he touched or leant on the car when he found the body  or from a police box in which his clothes were later stored. the box had come from an area where officers went after being on the firing range. but mr dowell also said the residue would have been present if mr blake fired a gun that night. witnesses have already told the trial mr blake  stood out as being quite nervous and agitated  at the restaurant before the murder. the actor  who won an emmy for playing a maverick detective in the 1970s tv cop drama baretta  could face life in prison if convicted.
berlin cheers for anti-nazi film a german movie about an anti-nazi resistance heroine has drawn loud applause at berlin film festival.  sophie scholl - the final days portrays the final days of the member of the white rose movement. scholl  21  was arrested and beheaded with her brother  hans  in 1943 for distributing leaflets condemning the  abhorrent tyranny  of adolf hitler. director marc rothemund said:  i have a feeling of responsibility to keep the legacy of the scholls going.   we must somehow keep their ideas alive   he added.  the film drew on transcripts of gestapo interrogations and scholl s trial preserved in the archive of communist east germany s secret police. their discovery was the inspiration behind the film for rothemund  who worked closely with surviving relatives  including one of scholl s sisters  to ensure historical accuracy on the film. scholl and other members of the white rose resistance group first started distributing anti-nazi leaflets in the summer of 1942. they were arrested as they dropped leaflets at munich university calling for a  day of reckoning  with adolf hitler s regime. the film focuses on the six days from scholl s arrest to the intense trial which saw scholl initially deny the charges and ended with a defiant appearance. it is one of three german films vying for a top prize at the festival.  a south african film version of bizet s tragic opera carmen shot in cape town in the xhosa language has also premiered at the berlin festival. the film is entitled u-carmen ekhayelitsha or carmen in khayelitsha after the township in which the story is set. it is performed by a 40-strong music and theatre troupe in their debut film performance. the film is the first south african feature in 25 years and only the second to be nominated for a golden bear award.
media gadgets get moving pocket-sized devices that let people carry around video and images are set to have a big year in 2005  according to industry experts.  last year saw the emergence of portable media players  such as the windows-based creative zen portable media player  the samsung yepp  the iriver pmc-100  and the archos av400 series among others. but this year  they are set to get smarter and more connected  to allow people to find more video to watch on them. archos launched its latest range of its linux-based portable media devices at the consumer electronics show in las vegas on friday. dubbed the pocket media assistant pma430  it crucially has wi-fi capability built-in for the first time.  consumers are showing a great thirst for devices that store all their media in one place for anywhere access   said henri crohas  chief of archos.  and now those consumers can stay connected and productive at the same time.  archos said the focus for the device is to be the second gadget in people s pockets  after the mobile.  unlike windows-based players  the archos av400 series devices have always been able to record from any video source  such as tvs  as well as playback. the content put onto the devices is copy protected so cannot then be swapped to another device.  recording is perhaps a crucial functionality for those who have not seen the point of portable video if there is not a lot of video to watch on it. and wi-fi connectivity opens up the possibility of content delivery via a high-speed wireless link. archos also announced that it would open up the software development kit to linux developers so that more applications could be created for the device. microsoft also made some announcements in the portable media arena at ces  primarily for us consumers though. it has agreed a content deal with personal video recorder company tivo  which bill gates also showcased in his keynote speech at ces. the tivo to go service means that us consumers will be able to take any programmes they record on their tivos and transfer it for free to watch on any of the windows-based portable media players or smartphones. it also said it had launched a service with mtv to let people watch comedy central  vh1 and country music tv on its devices. and a service is launching with msn to provide people with shortened versions of news  entertainment and other video on a subscription basis for download via the pc onto the portable devices. but the ability to record directly from tv  vcr  and digital cable and satellite boxes  which windows-based devices do not offer  certainly gives people more content to watch on the go too.  the increased capability of these devices  and the content deals that are being done  may go some way to persuading people to use them. recent research by jupiter suggested that people would prefer a device that was dedicated to music. only 13% of europeans wanted to watch video while on the move. more seemed interested in spending their cash on music-only devices.   this year  we are ready for an explosion of portable media   microsoft s mike coleman told the bbc news website.  we are very bullish about it. the fact that i can put photos on here too and share them is super-cool to the consumer   he added. the fact that europeans are far larger public transport users than americans is one reason why portable media will take off in the coming year too. there is a burgeoning market there for commuters to watch news and other programmes on their way to work. although microsoft s content distribution deals are for the us market at the moment  talks were  always on-going  with european content suppliers to offer similar services. various rights management issues have to be ironed out first however. but that does not prevent people from finding ways to create their own content to share online and swap on portable devices  particularly via those which are wi-fi enabled. the possibility is open for non-professional makers of video and audio to take advantage of the growing portable media market to distribute their work. ces  which runs from 6 to 9 january  showcases more than 50 000 new gadgets that will be hitting the shelves in 2005.
apple ipod family expands market apple has expanded its ipod family with the release of its next generation of the digital music players.  its latest challenges to the growing digital music gadget market include an ipod mini model which can hold 6gb compared to a previous 4gb. the company  which hopes to keep its dominant place in the digital music market  also said the gold coloured version of the mini would be dropped. a 30gb version has also been added to the ipod photo family. the latest models have a longer battery life and their prices have been cut by an average of £40. the original ipod took an early lead in the digital music player market thanks to its large storage capacity and simple design.  during 2004 about 25 million portable players were sold  10 million of which were apple ipods. but analysts agree that the success is also down to its integration with the itunes online store  which has given the company a 70% share of the legal download music market. mike mcguire  a research director at analyst gartner  told the bbc news website that apple had done a good job in  sealing off the market from competition  so far.  they have created a very seamless package which i think is the idea of the product - the design  function and the software are very impressive   he said. he added that the threat from others was always present  however.  creative  other microsoft-partnered devices  real  sony and so on  are ratcheting up the marketing message and advertising   he said. creative was very upbeat about how many of its creative zen players it had shipped by the end of last year  he said. its second-generation models  like the creative zen micro photo  is due out in the summer. it will have 5gb of memory on board.  digital music players are now the gadget of choice among young americans  according to recent research by the pew internet and american life project. one in 10 us adults - 22 million people - now owns a digital music player of some sort. sales of legally downloaded songs also rose more than tenfold in 2004  according to the record industry  with 200 million tracks bought online in the us and europe in 12 months. the ifpi industry body said that the popularity of portable music players was behind the growth. analysts say that the ease of use and growth of music services available on the net will continue to drive the trend towards portable music players.  people are also starting to use them in novel ways. some are combining automatic syncing functions many of them have with other net functions to automatically distribute diy radio shows  called podcasts. but 2005 will also see more competition from mobile phone operators who are keen to offer streaming services on much more powerful and sophisticated handsets. according to mr mcguire  research suggests that people like the idea of building up huge libraries of music  which they can do with high-capacity storage devices  like ipods and creative zens. mobiles do not yet have this capacity though  and there are issues about the ease of portability of mobile music. mr mcguire said apple was ensuring it kept a foot in the mobile music door with its recent deal with motorola to produce a version of itunes for motorola phones.
school tribute for tv host carson more than 1 000 people turned out on sunday to pay tribute to late us tv presenter johnny carson in the nebraska town where he grew up.  carson  who hosted the tonight show for 30 years  died on 23 january from respiratory disease emphysema. he lived in norfolk  nebraska from the age of eight until he joined the navy  but returned regularly and donated $5m (£2.7m) to local causes. old school friends were among the crowd at the school s johnny carson theater.  carson  who was one of the best-loved tv personalities in the us  asked not to have a public memorial in los angeles  where he lived in later life. he began his showbusiness career in norfolk  performing magic under the name the great carsoni from the age of 14. his donations included $600 000 to norfolk high school in the 1980s to build a new performing arts centre. when carson died  president bush led the public tributes  saying the presenter  had a profound influence on american life and entertainment .
dallaglio eyeing lions tour place former england captain lawrence dallaglio still harbours hopes of a place on the british and irish lions tour to new zealand.  lions coach sir clive woodward has made it clear he will pick his squad to tour next summer based on form shown in the six nations championship. but dallaglio  who called time on england earlier this year  said:  i assure you i wouldn t let anyone down.  i know what it takes and what i have to offer   he told the daily telegraph. dallaglio toured south africa with the lions in 1997 but was forced home early with a knee injury from the trip to australia three years ago.  the 32-year-old also felt concentrating on club rugby could have prolonged his international shelf-life. he said:  i ll be in good shape and fresh without another 10 tests on the clock.  from what i witnessed at close quarters on sunday in our heineken cup match against leicester  i certainly didn t feel out of place alongside those players  many of whom will be on the trip.   if i m fit and playing well  then i m most certainly available.  if clive feels he has no need to look outside the international crop  then fine. if he does  then he won t need to look too far  will he
australia rates at four year high australia is raising its benchmark interest rate to its highest level in four years despite signs of a slowdown in the country s economy.  the reserve bank of australia lifted interest rates 0.25% to 5.5%  their first upwards move in more than a year. however  shortly after the bank made its decision  new figures showed a fall in economic growth in the last quarter. the bank said it had acted to curb inflation but the move was criticised by some analysts.  the rate hike was the first since december 2003 and had been well-flagged in advance. however  opposition parties and some analysts said the move was ill-timed given data showing the australian economy grew just 0.1% between october and december and 1.5% on an annual basis.  the figures  representing a decline from the 0.2% growth in gdp seen between july and september  were below market expectations. consumer spending remains strong  however  and the bank is concerned about growing inflationary pressures.  over recent months it has become increasingly clear that remaining spare capacity in the labour and goods markets is becoming rather limited   said ian macfarlane  governor of the reserve bank.  at 2.6%  inflation remains within the bank s 2-3% target range. however  exports declined in the second half of 2004  fuelling a rise in the country s current account deficit - the difference in the value of imports compared to exports - to a record australian dollar 29.4bn. the australian government said the economy remained strong with unemployment at a near 30 year low.  the economy has been strong and it is properly moderating but it doesn t look to me like it s slowing in any unreasonable way   said treasurer peter costello. stock markets had factored in the likelihood of a rate rise but analysts still expressed concern about the strength of the economy.  that 1.5% annual growth rate is the lowest we have seen since the post-election slump we saw back in 2000-1   said michael blythe  chief economist at the commonwealth bank of australia.  this suggests the economy really did slow very sharply in the second half of 2004.
february poll claim  speculation  reports that tony blair is planning a snap general election for february 2005 have been described as  idle speculation  by downing street.  a spokesman said he had  no idea  where the reports in the sunday times and sunday telegraph had come from. the papers suggest ministers believe the government could benefit from a  baghdad bounce  following successful iraq elections in january. a british general election was last held in february in 1974. in that election  edward heath lost and failed to build a coalition with the liberals. harold wilson took over and increased his majority later in the year in a second election  the latest speculation suggests the prime minister favours a february poll in order to exploit his current opinion poll lead over conservative leader michael howard. but that strategy could prompt criticism he was seeking to  cut and run  after less then four years of a parliamentary term. the papers report that alan milburn  labour s head of elections strategy  has played a key role in the plan for a february election  which would include a new year advertising blitz. new labour s campaign  both newspapers said  would be centred around the slogan  britain is working . a labour party spokesman said the election date was ultimately a matter for mr blair  but he was unaware of anything to suggest it would be in february. most commentators have been expecting an election on 5 may. the last election was in june 2001.
liverpool revel in night of glory liverpool manager rafael benitez said their qualification for the next stage of the champions league was  one of the proudest nights of my career.   the reds beat olympiakos 3-1 with a late steven gerrard strike and benitez said:  it was a really great night.  the players ran hard all the time and you see how much it means to the fans.  we knew before the game that it was very important for the club to gain these extra finances. for liverpool  this result is very  very important.  benitez hailed gerrard for his match-winning strike four minutes from time and also the anfield crowd for sticking by their side after they had fallen a goal behind at the interval. the reds scored three second-half goals in a sensational comeback capped by gerrard s 20-yard drive. he added:  steven can play all over the pitch and he influences every part of the game.   i have said to him many times that he has the freedom because he has talent and is very important to us.  i felt that the difference between the sides was really our supporters  i cannot thank them enough.  i want to say thank-you to the supporters  they were magnificent to help us achieve this result.  gerrard admitted he thought they were going out of the champions league after trailing 1-0 at half-time. he said:  i d be lying if i thought we were going through when we were losing at half-time.   we had a mountain to climb  but we have climbed it and credit to everyone.  that was one of the best goals i have scored  i caught it sweet  i haven t caught one like that for ages. it was a massive night for me and the team.  liverpool s win means all four of england s champions league representatives have reached the knockout stages for the first time.
mobiles rack up 20 years of use mobile phones in the uk are celebrating their 20th anniversary this weekend.  britain s first mobile phone call was made across the vodafone network on 1 january 1985 by veteran comedian ernie wise. in the 20 years since that day  mobile phones have become an integral part of modern life and now almost 90% of britons own a handset. mobiles have become so popular that many people use their handset as their only phone and rarely use a landline.  the first ever call over a portable phone was made in 1973 in new york but it took 10 years for the first commercial mobile service to be launched. the uk was not far behind the rest of the world in setting up networks in 1985 that let people make calls while they walked. the first call was made from st katherine s dock to vodafone s head office in newbury which at the time was over a curry house. for the first nine days of 1985 vodafone was the only firm with a mobile network in the uk. then on 10 january cellnet (now o2) launched its service. mike caudwell  spokesman for vodafone  said that when phones were launched they were the size of a briefcase  cost about £2 000 and had a battery life of little more than 20 minutes.   despite that they were hugely popular in the mid-80s   he said.  they became a yuppy must-have and a status symbol among young wealthy business folk.  this was also despite the fact that the phones used analogue radio signals to communicate which made them very easy to eavesdrop on. he said it took vodafone almost nine years to rack up its first million customers but only 18 months to get the second million.  it s very easy to forget that in 1983 when we put the bid document in we were forecasting that the total market would be two million people   he said.  cellnet was forecasting half that.  now vodafone has 14m customers in the uk alone. cellnet and vodafone were the only mobile phone operators in the uk until 1993 when one2one (now t-mobile) was launched. orange had its uk launch in 1994. both newcomers operated digital mobile networks and now all operators use this technology. the analogue spectrum for the old phones has been retired. called global system for mobiles (gsm) this is now the most widely used phone technology on the planet and is used to help more than 1.2 billion people make calls. mr caudwell said the advent of digital technology also helped to introduce all those things  such as text messaging and roaming that have made mobiles so popular.
cuba winds back economic clock fidel castro s decision to ban all cash transactions in us dollars in cuba has once more turned the spotlight on cuba s ailing economy.  all conversions between the us dollar and cuba s  convertible  peso will from 8 november be subject to a 10% tax. cuban citizens  who receive money from overseas  and foreign visitors  who change dollars in cuba  will be affected. critics of the measure argue that it is a step backwards  reflecting the cuban president s desire to increase his control of the economy and to clamp down on private enterprise. in a live television broadcast announcing the measure  president castro s chief aide said it was necessary because of the united states  increasing  economic aggression .  the ten percent obligation applies exclusively to the dollar by virtue of the situation created by the new measures of the us government to suffocate our country   he said.  the bush administration has taken an increasingly harsh line on cuba in recent months. president bush s government  which has been a strong supporter of the 40-year-old trade embargo on cuba  introduced even tighter restrictions on cuba in may.  cubans living in the us are now limited to one visit to cuba every three years and they can only send money to their immediate relatives. a leading expert on the cuban economy says that castro s tax plan smacks more of a desperate economic measure than a political gesture.  i think it is primarily an effort to raise some cash   says jose barrionuevo  head of strategy for latin american emerging markets for barclays capital.  it underscores the fact that the economy is in very bad shape and the government is looking for sources of revenue.   the tax will hit the families of cuban exiles hardest as they benefit from the money their displaced relatives send home. this money  known as remittances  can amount to as much as $1bn a year. those remaining in cuba will have to pay the tax. their relatives abroad may choose to send money in other currencies which are not subject to the tax  such as euros  or increase their dollar payments to compensate. however  many of cuban s poorest citizens could be worse off as a result. the tax will also affect the two million tourists who visit cuba every year  particularly those americans who continue to defy a ban on travel there.  cuba s tourist industry has been one of its few economic success stories over the last ten years and  according to the un economic commission for latin america  is now worth $3bn to the country.  the tax is designed to provide much-needed revenue for cuba s cash-strapped economy. cuba badly needs dollars to pay for essential items such as food  fuel and medicine. much of cuba s basic infrastructure is in a state of disrepair. in recent weeks  cuba has suffered its most serious power cuts in a decade and there have also been water shortages in parts of the island. cuba s economy had staged a modest recovery during the mid 1990s as the collapse of the soviet union forced it to embrace foreign capital  decentralise trade and permit limited private enterprise. however  a decline in foreign tourism since 2002  periodic hurricanes and the increasing costs of importing oil have put a strain on the economy. it has however yet to be seen if the tax will provide a solution to the government s economic problems. the tax could fuel an active black market in currency trading  mr barrionuevo said.  the main impact could be that it will create a black market which you typically see in countries  like venezuela  which have restrictions on capital   he says. mr barrioneuvo says the measure could be dropped if it has a damaging effect on economic activity.  it is intended to be a permanent measure but i am not sure it can last too long.
worldcom bosses  $54m payout ten former directors at worldcom have agreed to pay $54m (£28.85m)  including $18m from their own pockets  to settle a class action lawsuit  reports say.  james wareham  a lawyer representing one of the directors  told reuters the 10 had agreed to pay those who lost billions when the firm collapsed. the remaining $36m will be paid by the directors  insurers. but  a spokesman for the prosecutor  new york state comptroller alan hevesi  said no formal agreement had been made.  corporate governance experts said that if the directors do dip into their own pockets for the settlement  it will set a new standard for the accountability of bosses  when the firms they oversee face problems.   directors very rarely pay   said charles elson  chairman of the center for corporate governance at the university of delaware. he added that the settlement  sends a pretty strong shockwave through the director world . a formal agreement on the payout is expected to be signed on thursday in a us district court in manhattan. earlier  the new york times had reported that the personal payments were required as part of any deal at the start of negotiations. the ten former outside directors are james allen  judith areen  carl aycock  max bobbitt  clifford alexander  stiles kellett  gordon macklin  john porter  lawrence tucker and the estate of john sidgmore  who died last year. it has not yet been determined how much each director will have to pay.  none of the 10 former directors was a direct participant in the accounting machinations of the worldcom fraud   said the wall street journal (wsj).  two other outside former directors  bert roberts and francesco galesi  remain defendants in the lawsuit  said the newspaper. according to the wsj  which cites people familiar to the case  the settling directors are expected to deny wrongdoing and state they are settling the case to eliminate the uncertainties and expense of further litigations. the second-largest us long-distance telecoms operator filed for bankruptcy in 2002 when an $11bn accounting scandal was unearthed. the company emerged from chapter 11 protection last year and changed its name to mci inc. former worldcom chief executive bernard ebbers is to face trial this month on criminal charges that he oversaw the fraud.
security scares spark browser fix microsoft is working on a new version of its internet explorer web browser.  the revamp has been prompted by microsoft s growing concern with security as well as increased competition from rival browsers. microsoft said the new version will be far less vulnerable to the bugs that make its current browser a favourite of tech-savvy criminals. test versions of the new program  called ie 7  are due to be released by the summer.  the announcement about internet explorer was made by bill gates  microsoft chairman and chief software architect  during a keynote speech at the rsa security conference currently being held in san francisco. although details were scant  mr gates  said ie7 would include new protections against viruses  spyware and phishing scams. this last category of threats involves criminals setting up spoof websites that look identical to those of banks and try to trick people into handing over login and account information.  in a bid to shore up the poor security in ie 6  microsoft has regularly issued updates to patch loopholes exploited by criminals and the makers of nuisance programs such as spyware. earlier this month it released a security bulletin that patched eight critical security holes - some of which were found in the ie browser. microsoft has also made a series of acquisitions of small firms that specialise in computer security. one of the first fruits of these acquisitions appeared last month with the release of a microsoft anti-spyware program. an own-brand anti-virus program is due to follow by the end of 2005. the decision to make internet explorer 7 is widely seen as a u-turn because  before now  microsoft said it had no need to update the browser. typically new versions of its browser appear with successive versions of the windows operating system. a new version of ie was widely expected to debut with the next version of windows  codenamed longhorn  which is due to appear in 2006. the current version of internet explorer is four years old  and is widely seen as falling behind rivals such as firefox and opera. there are also persistent rumours that search engine google is poised to produce its own brand browser based on firefox. in particular the firefox browser has been winning fans and users since its first full version was released in november 2004. estimates of how many users firefox has won over vary widely. according to market statistics gathered by websidestory  firefox s market share is now about 5% of all users. however  other browser stat gatherers say the figure is closer to 15%. some technical websites report that a majority of their visitors use the firefox browser. internet explorer still dominates with a share of about 90% but this is down from a peak of almost 96% in mid-2004.
us duo in first spam conviction a brother and sister in the us have been convicted of sending hundreds of thousands of unsolicited e-mail messages to aol subscribers.  it is the first criminal prosecution of internet spam distributors. jurors in virginia recommended that the man  jeremy jaynes  serve nine years in prison and that his sister  jessica degroot  be fined $7 500. they were convicted under a state law that bars the sending of bulk e-mails using fake addresses.  they will be formally sentenced next year. a third defendant  richard rutkowski  was acquitted. prosecutors said jaynes was  a snake oil salesman in a new format   using the internet to peddle useless wares  news agency associated press reported. a  fed-ex refund processor  was supposed to allow people to earn $75 an hour working from home. another item on sale was an  internet history eraser . his sister helped him process credit card payments. jaynes amassed a fortune of $24m from his sales  prosecutors said.  he s been successful ripping people off all these years   ap quoted prosecutor russell mcguire as saying. jaynes was also found guilty of breaking a state law which prohibits the sending of more than 100 000 e-mails in 30 days  virginia state attorney general jerry kilgore reportedly said. prosecutors had asked for 15 years in jail for jaynes  and a jail term for his sister. but jaynes  lawyer david oblon called the nine-year recommended term  outrageous  and said his client believed he was innocent. he pointed out that all three of the accused lived in north carolina and were unaware of the virginia state law. spam messages are estimated to account for at least 60% of all e-mails sent.
spain coach faces racism inquiry spain s football federation has initiated disciplinary action against national coach luis aragones over racist comments about thierry henry.  if found guilty aragones could lose his job or face a fine of about £22 000. the federation had initially declined to take action against aragones after comments he made during a national team training session in october. but its president angel maria villar changed his mind after a request by spain s anti-violence commission. aragones insisted the comments  made to henry s arsenal club-mate jose antonio reyes  were meant to motivate the player  and were not intended to be offensive.   i never intended to offend anyone  and for that reason i have a very easy conscience   he said at the time.  i m obliged to motivate my players to get the best results.  as part of that job  i use colloquial language  with which we can all understand each other within the framework of the football world.   england s players made a point of wearing anti-racism t-shirts when training before their friendly against spain in madrid last month.  but the storm increased following racist chanting by spanish fans at england s black players during the game  which spain won 1-0. spain s minister of sport jaime lissavetzky was quick to give his backing to the federation s decision.  everyone who has a public function has to consider their declarations  and make sure they do not give a negative image   he said.  we are going to have zero tolerance in questions of racism.
concerns at school diploma plan final appeals are being made for the government not to ditch the reform plan for england s secondary schools put forward by the tomlinson report.  the government s response to the plan for a four-tier diploma to replace all existing 14-19 qualifications is expected next week. some are worried it could be scuppered if  as tony blair and ruth kelly have suggested  gcses and a-levels stay. sir mike tomlinson himself was briefed only this week. he is said to be feeling more comfortable about what the government is likely to say than if he had read only what was in newspapers in the earlier part of the week. but the government was said to be still rewriting its response on friday.  it will be a tragedy if the government comes through with a half-hearted response   said the chairman of the commons education select committee  labour mp barry sheerman.  his main concern was the reports that there would be a diploma - but only to replace existing vocational qualifications.  we must tackle head-on the structural mess that is our secondary education system   he wrote in the times educational supplement.  it is not the case that the academic stream in secondary is fine while the vocational route is desperately weak.  the qualifications and curriculum authority (qca) has also told the government not to  compromise . the qca said the potential  step-change in participation and attainment  lay in the integrity of the whole diploma.  any partial implementation of the proposals would  in our view  compromise that integrity   said its chairman  sir anthony greener. it is a sign of the qca s concern that its advice went to ministers last december but was publicised only recently. but people understand that a white paper response is government policy and has to command wider ministerial support than if it were coming only from the department for education and skills. they may be content if it does not  close too many doors  in writing - whatever spin is put on it.  the chief inspector of schools  david bell  also said recently that gcses and a-levels should go.  one of the reasons why i m so strongly in favour of these terms disappearing over time is that it s good for the symbols of change to be seen right across the system   he said.  if we don t say this is a sea-change in education  we will miss a great opportunity.  universities and head teachers in both the independent and state sectors have also backed the tomlinson proposals  which include having higher grades at advanced level to differentiate between the brightest students. a note of concern has been expressed repeatedly by the employers  organisation  the cbi  which complains of a lack of skills. in an attempt to address this  the tomlinson plan is for tests in  functional  maths and literacy - decidedly not gcses. it has been suggested the government will take steps of some sort to meet firms  concerns on this score. another dissenter is sir mike tomlinson s predecessor as chief schools inspector  professor chris woodhead  who has said there is no need for such a  massive upheaval . the conservative party has put forward plans to revert to a system of having only the brightest percentage of students each year getting the top a-level grade  no matter how well the others have done.
wales hails new superstar one game into his six nations career  and gavin henson is already a welsh legend.  a mesmeric display against england  topped off by his howitzer of a match-winning penalty  has secured life membership of that particular club. at 23  henson has the rugby world at his silver-booted feet. and if his natural self-assurance and swagger is shared by his wales team-mates  then a full-blown revival could be more than just a lot of hot air drifting up from the valleys. the  red dragonhood  subdued the  red rose army  in most areas of the field  but henson s stellar performance ensured their efforts yielded the win they craved above all others. he announced himself in the game s opening salvo with a  welcome to cardiff  greeting for mark cueto on the gain line. and his defence was a major feature of the match  his principal victim poor old  or rather young  mathew tait. the england centre will have spent his 19th birthday on sunday shuddering at the memory of how he was up-ended not just once  but twice  by henson s all-enveloping tackles.  the second time  after the interval  single-handedly lifted the record millennium stadium crowd at a time when england were starting to show menace. showing awesome strength  henson nonchantly held the bewildered debutant in mid-air  a master predator toying with his helpless prey  savouring the kill. his kicking game also prospered  particularly when he moved to full-back for 10 minutes either side of half-time when his captain gareth thomas was in the sin-bin. one huge clearance from tait s kick sent england retreating rapidly while another booming punt to the right corner kept the visitors pinned in their own half. henson was also creativity personified: one little chip ahead for shane williams narrowly missed its target; a precise cross-kick forcing jamie noon to fumble the ball into touch. he also had a hand in the game s only try  finished superbly by williams  and might have scored himself on the half-hour as he glided into space  only to be scragged by tait. henson was twice repelled as wales laid siege to the english line after charlie hodgson s penalty had edged the visitors in front for the first time. but he was not to be denied as the crescendo rose to a deafening din  and the outcome of the match fell to him. replacement gareth cooper made the most of a poor welsh scrum by chipping into space  where jason robinson was penalised for holding on in the tackle.  five metres in from the right touchline  44 metres out  it was not a kick stephen jones  who had seen a long-range effort fall agonisingly under the bar  would have approached with confidence.  it was out of steve s range but i looked at gavin  and he gave me a reassuring nod   said thomas. henson  surveying his date with destiny  positively relished the responsibility  and the chance to make himself a hero. without further ado  he nervelessly slotted the kick that ended five years of english dominance and 12 years of waiting in cardiff.  i knew i was going to get it before i even took the kick   he said later  his distinct spikey locks freshly gelled into an appropriate star shape.  i have been getting them from that distance all year so it wasn t a problem.  there were still four minutes for wales to hold out  and the frenzy was such that henson could not even hear jones shouting instructions at him from three yards away. but it was wales who finished the game on the attack  almost snatching a second try in a thunderous climax.  just do it  implored the front page headline on saturday s western mail newspaper. and  thanks to henson  wales did.
ukip candidate suspended eurosceptic party ukip have suspended a candidate for allegedly suggesting the criminally insane should be killed.  john houston  54  was due to stand in the east kilbride seat in lanarkshire at the next election. but he was suspended after his reported views  including the return of the british empire  were sent to two scottish newspapers. ukip spokesman mark croucher said those who selected mr houston knew nothing of his views. the episode comes at a difficult time for ukip  soon after the high-profile departure of mep robert kilroy-silk. mr houston is alleged to have said that the organs of the criminally insane should be  made available to law-abiding members of the community  and proposed the legalisation of drugs and the sex trade. the document reportedly said:  we re looking for the resurrection of the british empire.  the problems for the human race - environmental and others - can only be dealt with on a global scale  and that calls for a radical alliance of the english-speaking nations  which they are uniquely able to do.  mr croucher said the main issue would be that mr houston s reported views had been presented as ukip policy  which they were not. he said they might have been submissions to a committee working on the party s manifesto  but would not have been matched to mr houston when he was standing to become a candidate. he told bbc news:  he appears to have said these things. we have suspended him as a member and as a candidate.  by all accounts none of this was mentioned at his selection meeting.  it is simply a distraction from the task in hand  the eu constitution  not individual idiocies.  mr houston was quoted in the herald newspaper saying:  i feel ukip have over-reacted and overshot the runway.   peter nielson  who is ukip scotland chairman  said he had suspended mr houston on friday night.  he will remain suspended while the matter is being investigated and then we will decide if and what further action will be taken.  he said that any evidence would be looked into and mr houston may be interviewed by the party. he added:  i can t comment too much at the moment  i have one version from him but i haven t seen the papers yet.
the comic book genius of stan lee stan lee  the man responsible for a string of comic superheroes that have become household names  has won a court battle for a slice of the profits from the hit spider-man movies.  many marvel at the man who gave his characters extraordinary powers and everyday headaches - a formula which revolutionised comics. born in 1922 to poor working-class jewish immigrants from romania  stan lieberman  got a job in timely publications  a company owned by a relative. he was assigned to the comics division and - thanks to a fertile imagination - rose to editor by the age of 18. for more than 20 years  he was  the ultimate hack  - knocking out crime stories  horrors  westerns  anything to sate the appetite of his juvenile readership. words of more than two syllables were discouraged. characters were either all good or bad  with no shades of grey. so embarrassed was lieberman by much of what he was writing that he refused to put his real name on the byline. he assumed the  dumb name   stan lee  now legally adopted.  by the time he was 40  lee had decided he was too old for the comic game. his british-born wife  joan  suggested he had nothing to lose and  for his swansong  should write the kind of characters he really wanted to create. after a rival comic had come up with a superteam consisting of batman  superman and wonder woman  timely needed to respond.  lee s answer  in 1961  was the fantastic four - a team of astronauts who gained super powers after being bombarded with cosmic rays. they were to change lee s life  and the comics industry  forever. lee gave each character individual  everyday teenage problems such as dandruff  ingrown toenails and acne. they would frequently fall out with their parents and each other. the fan letters poured in. without immediately knowing it  stan lee had ushered in the golden age of comics  and his imagination was rekindled. his marvel universe spawned the new title of marvel comics. soon after  nerdy peter parker was transformed - after a bite from an irradiated spider - into someone who could crawl up the sides of new york s skyscrapers. spider-man was born. he was to become an icon of modern popular culture. spidey  as he is affectionately known  had quite extraordinary powers - yet he had problems at work  at home and with his girlfriends. at last  the teenager was no longer just the sidekick  but the main hero. and the hero was no longer just brawn  he had brains too.   just because he s a hero and has super powers doesn t mean he doesn t have problems   stan lee told the bbc. the incredible hulk  the mighty thor  iron man and the rest all grappled with problems like drug abuse  bigotry and social inequality. radically  lee gave the artists responsible for the comic designs credits for their work. jack kirby  frank miller  john romitaand and others achieved cult status in their own right. other superheroes broke new ground in other ways. daredevil was blind  black panther was black and silver surfer pondered the state of humanity. lee s influence remains. some years ago the marvel hero  northstar  came out of the closet. in its heyday  marvel was selling 50 million copies a year. until he retired from editing in 1971  stan lee wrote all the copy for marvel s covers.  in 1999  his stan lee media venture  aimed at marrying comic-strips with the internet  went spectacularly wrong. lee went bankrupt and his business partner landed in prison for fraud. in 2001 though  he started a new company entitled pow! (purveyors of wonder) entertainment  which is currently developing films and television programmes. his latest project is a superhero based on a real person - jay j armes  who has metal claws after losing both hands aged 12 and fights crime with a tiger. but his 40-year-old creations are still as enduring as ever - with x-men  the hulk and daredevil have all been turned into hollywood action movies in the last five years. but spider-man has been the biggest box office hit  with the 2002 original and its 2004 sequel taking almost $1.6bn (£857m) in ticket sales around the world - before dvd and merchandise sales are counted. it seems stan lee is as indestructible as his heroes.
california sets fines for spyware the makers of computer programs that secretly spy on what people do with their home pcs could face hefty fines in california.  from 1 january  a new law is being introduced to protect computer users from software known as spyware. the legislation  which was approved by governor arnold schwarzenegger  is designed to safeguard people from hackers and help protect their personal information. spyware is considered by computer experts to be one of the biggest nuisance and security threats facing pc users in the coming year. the software buries itself in computers and can collect a wide range of information. at its worst  it has the ability to hijack personal data  like passwords  login details and credit card numbers. the programs are so sophisticated they change frequently and become impossible to eradicate.  one form of spyware called adware has the ability to collect information on a computer user s web-surfing. it can result in people being bombarded with pop-up ads that are hard to close. in washington  congress has been debating four anti-spyware bills  but california is a step ahead. the state s consumer protection against spyware act bans the installation of software that takes control of another computer. it also requires companies and websites to disclose whether their systems will install spyware. consumers are able to seek up to $1 000 in damages if they think they have fallen victim to the intrusive software. the new law marks a continuing trend in california towards tougher privacy rights. a recent survey by earthlink and webroot found that 90% of pcs are infested with the surreptitious software and that  on average  each one is harbouring 28 separate spyware programs. currently users wanting protection from spyware have turned to free programs such as spybot and ad-aware.
giving financial gifts to children your child or grandchild may want the latest toy this christmas  but how about giving them a present that will help their financial future   gifts of the financial variety might have a longer lasting impact. it may encourage children to save or start a fund which could count towards university costs  for example.  the government is trying to encourage saving at an early age  through its new child trust fund. the first vouchers  worth £250 or £500 for low-income families  will be distributed from january. all children born after 1st september 2002 will be eligible. parents will need to decide which financial institution will manage this gift in time for the start of the scheme in april 2005.  parents and relatives will be able to top up the fund with up to £1 200 a year  which will grow free of income and capital gains tax. as the child trust fund will not be in force in time for christmas  relatives could invest their gifts in a higher rate children s deposit account  and use this as a feeder fund.  there are accounts designed to start children off in the savings habit and they often pay a higher rate of interest. some of the best instant-access accounts currently available include the ladybird account from the saffron walden building society  paying 5.35% for a minimum balance of £1 and the alliance & leicester firstsaver which pays 5.25%  also starting at £1.  interest earned by children is subject to income tax. however  children  like adults  have a personal income tax allowance (£4 745 for the current tax year).  if the account holds money gifted by friends and relatives - but not parents - any interest earned from the savings account may be set against the allowance. as long as the total amount of interest falls within the allowance  then no tax will be payable. when the account is opened a form  r85   available from the bank or building society  should be completed. this confirms that the account holder is a non-taxpayer and allows interest to be received without the deduction of income tax.  the tax rules are different for parents who save on behalf of a child. only £100 of interest (per parent) can be tax-free. where interest exceeds this level  the whole of the interest will be taxed on the parent. this is to prevent parents from holding their own cash savings in their children s names and taking advantage of the tax allowances. where both parents and other relatives are saving on behalf of a child  consideration should be given to opening separate accounts - one for parents  gifts and one for gifts from other relatives. therefore  it may be preferable for parents to contribute to the child trust fund which is tax free  with any gifts from relatives that take the total above the annual £1 200 limit being directed to a deposit account.  another favourite solution is premium bonds. with the promise of riches far greater than a mere deposit account  they make great presents. the parent or guardian will be responsible for the bonds and will receive notification of the purchase. any prizes will be sent to the parent or child s guardian. the minimum for each purchase is £100 and bonds are sold in multiples of £10.  there are gift opportunities beyond cash accounts and these should not be ignored.  over the longer term  stock market funds have outperformed other types of investment  although in the shorter term they can be volatile. one of the benefits of investing for children is that investment is generally for the longer term - more than ten years - which helps to reduce the risks associated with investing in shares. one way to spread the risk is to invest in the stock market through a unit or investment trust. these are pooled investment funds which give access to a wide range of shares. these funds may be actively managed  where a fund manager picks individual stocks based on a view of their future potential  or passive  where a manager invests in all the shares that comprise a stock market index  for example  the ftse 100. exchange traded funds offer an alternative way to track a stock market. these are single shares that give the return of an underlying index (so are really another form of tracker). the difference is that the charges are quite low. the only drawback with all financial gifts is that the children gain an absolute right to the money at age 18  and parents will have no control over how it is spent. for larger gifts it may be worthwhile taking professional advice on the establishment of a suitable trust that will allow ongoing control over the capital and income.
lord scarman  93  dies peacefully distinguished lawyer lord scarman  who conducted the inquiry into the 1981 brixton riots  has died aged 93.  the peer enjoyed a celebrated judicial career  serving as law commission chairman in its first seven years. he also chaired the 1969 tribunal set up to investigate civil disturbances in northern ireland. paying tribute  the lord chancellor lord falconer said lord scarman was one of the  great advocates of our generation .   his legacy from his decisions in the lords and the court of appeal is substantial.  his work in the wake of the brixton riots and his commitment to the vulnerable and dispossessed was second to none.   a great judge  a great lawyer and a great man.  lord scarman s nephew george ritchie said the peer  who passed away peacefully on wednesday  would be  sadly missed .  the lord chief justice  lord woolf  who is the most senior judge in england and wales  said it was lord scarman s  pioneering work  which paved the way for the human rights act 1998.  he was a lawyer and a judge who had a remarkable insight into human nature  and an exceptional sensitivity to the needs of a healthy society   he said.  he was  personally  totally charming and he will be remembered with great affection and admiration by all who came into contact with him.   dame elizabeth butler-sloss  the president of the family justice division  said lord scarman was a  good and humane judge  and one of the greatest figures of the late 20th century. lord scarman will be remembered for the public inquiry he led into a string of race riots which began in brixton when racial tensions rose after a police crackdown on street robbery. during the following three days of disturbances that spread to the midlands  merseyside  bristol and leeds  nearly 400 people were injured and buildings and vehicles were set alight.  the inquiry famously settled on the so-called  rotten apples  theory  which argued that only a few police officers were racist  saying most were not. it spawned new law enforcement practices and led to the creation of the police complaints authority. trevor phillips  chair of the commission for racial equality  praised lord scarman s  ability to listen . he said:  when lord scarman toured the streets of brixton his presence was electrifying.  a community which had been systematically ignored by everyone else was suddenly embraced by the epitome of the english establishment.  his great quality was the ability to listen to young people of all backgrounds  many of whose language he could barely understand  genuinely to hear what they had to say and to talk to them as human beings.  he never lost the special combination of wisdom  humanity and the spark of radicalism that marked his watershed report into the brixton riots.
soros group warns of kazakh close the open society institute (osi)  financed by billionaire george soros  has accused kazakhstan officials of trying to close down its local office.  a demand for unpaid taxes and fines of $600 000 (£425 000) is politically motivated  the osi claimed  adding that it paid the money in october. the organisation has found itself in trouble after being accused of helping to topple georgia s former president. it denies having any role  but offices have had to close across the region.  the osi shut its office in moscow last year and has withdrawn from uzbekistan and belarus. in the ukraine earlier this year  mr soros - who took on the bank of england in the 1990s - and won  was pelted by protestors.  this legal prosecution can be considered an attempt by the government to force soros foundation-kazakhstan to cease its activities in kazakhstan and shut its doors for kazakh citizens and organisations   the osi said.  the osi aims to promote democratic and open  market-based societies. since the break up of the soviet union in 1991  kazakhstan has been dominated by its president nursultan abish-uly nazarbayev. he has powers for life  while insulting the president and officials has been made a criminal offence. the government controls the printing presses and most radio and tv transmission facilities. it operates the country s national radio and tv networks. recent elections were criticised as flawed and the opposition claimed there was widespread vote rigging. supporters  however  say he brings much needed stability to a region where islamic militancy is on the rise. they also credit him with promoting inter-ethnic accord and pushing through harsh reforms.
bmw to recall faulty diesel cars bmw is to recall all cars equipped with a faulty diesel fuel-injection pump supplied by parts maker robert bosch.  the faulty part does not represent a safety risk and the recall only affects pumps made in december and january. bmw said that it was too early to say how many cars were affected or how much the recall would cost. the german company is to extend a planned production break at one of its plants due to the faulty bosch part. the dingolfing site will now be closed all next week instead of for just two days. the additional three-day stoppage will mean a production loss of up to 3 600 vehicles  bmw said  adding that it was confident it could make up the numbers later.  bosch has stopped production of the part but expects to restart by 2 february. the faulty component does not represent a safety risk but causes the motor to stall after a significant amount of mileage. when asked if bmw would be seeking compensation from bosch  the carmaker s chief executive helmut panke said:  we will first solve the problem before talking about who will pay . audi and mercedes benz were also supplied with the defective diesel fuel-injection pumps but neither of them have to recall any vehicles. a spokesman for daimlerchrysler  parent company of mercedes benz  said it will however have to halt some production. it is to close the mercedes factory in sindelfingen on monday and tuesday. audi said it had been hit by production bottlenecks  due to a shortage of unaffected bosch parts.
gm  ford cut output as sales fall us car firms general motors (gm) and ford have been forced to cut production in the face of falling car sales.  us sales at gm sank 12.7% in february compared to a year ago while ford sales dropped 3% as foreign rivals took a bigger share of the market. meanwhile  asian carmakers fared well - toyota sales jumped 11% while rival nissan notched up a 10% increase. overall. sales across the industry also fell to 1.25 million vehicles from 1.27 million a year earlier.  gm and ford blamed high fuel prices for low sales of big trucks and gas-guzzling sports utility vehicles (suvs) - the vehicles that provide the biggest profits.  gm added that us truck sales fell 9% in february while car business tumbled 17%  however it did acknowledge that some new products - such as the pontiac g6 and chevrolet cobalt - had put in solid performances.  the calendar year is starting off slower than expected  both for gm and the industry   said mark laneve  gm s vice president for north american sales  service and marketing. the slump in sales prompted the group to cut production in north america by 3% - it has already reduced output by around 9% in the face of growing stockpiles. meanwhile  ford which posted its ninth consecutive drop in monthly us sales  said it was cutting first-quarter north american production by another 10 000 vehicles  or 1.2%. chrysler  the us unit of germany s daimlerchrysler  was the only detroit based automaker to boast an increase in market share during the month - with sales rising 8%.  but america s loss was its foreign rivals  gain as they continued to nibble away at the us market. while japan s top car maker toyota and nissan saw sales accelerate  even the smaller suzuki motor corp snapped up a more business with sales improving 17.6% on a year ago. in 2003  the firm launched an ambitious plan to triple us sales by 2007 as it seeks to become a bigger player in the asian assault on the us market. korea s hyundai was another big gainer  turning in a 19% surge in february sales. toyota put its rise in sales down to strong results for its redesigned avalon sedan and a 120% surge in sales of its gas-electric prius hybrid mid-size sedan as petrol-price conscious consumers looked to vehicles that were cheaper to run.  as gas prices continue their upward march  fuel efficiency catches the public eye   jim press  vice president and chief operating officer of toyota s us sales arm  said in a statement.
us to probe airline travel chaos the us government is to investigate two airlines- us airways and delta air lines  comair subsidiary - after travel chaos over the christmas weekend.  staff calling in sick at us airways and computer failures at comair left 30 000 passengers stranded and 10 000 pieces of baggage undelivered. us airways is in chapter 11 bankruptcy protection for the second time in two years  and battling to cut costs. it is currently trying to negotiate pay cuts with flight and baggage staff.  transportation secretary norman mineta said he was  deeply concerned  at the disruption to passengers  and ordered a thorough investigation. comair s computer breakdown plunged its flight-crew scheduling system into disarray. altogether  some 1 100 flights were cancelled over the holiday long weekend. mr mineta said it was important to understand  what happened  why it happened and whether the carriers properly planned for the holiday travel period and responded appropriately to consumer needs in the aftermath .  adding to the atmosphere of chaos were mountains of luggage left to pile up when a third of us airways  baggage handling staff called in sick. there was also a shortage of us airways flight attendants  with nearly a fifth saying they were too sick to work  leading to many flight cancellations. however  union officials denied there had been a deliberate  sickout . they said that many people have flu at this time of year and that the airline is chronically understaffed.  us airways ended up cancelling over 100 flights on christmas day  stranding passengers in as many as 119 airports. ground crews at us airways  the seventh-largest us airline  which is now in chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  face a court-imposed pay cut next month. the airline needs to negotiate other paycuts if it is to find a route out of bankruptcy. it is looking for paycuts totalling $800m.   us airways has a full-scale employee mutiny on its hands   commented michael boyd  an industry consultant. disruptions to flight schedules could discourage customers from flying with us airways  reducing revenues. us airways had to cancel approximately 65 flights on thursday  180 on friday  140 on saturday  43 on sunday and 15 on monday  said industry officials. the airline said it was  embarrassed by the situation  and  deeply regrets any inconvenience caused to customers   the probe will focus on the industry s compliance with a 1999 agreement aimed at improving the quality of passenger service that has so far allowed airlines to avoid congressionally-mandated standards. analysts said the christmas chaos cast doubt on us airway s ability to emerge from bankruptcy - and was likely to worsen the finances of troubled delta  parent of comair. comair  deeply regrets the inconvenience to all of our customers caused by the severe winter storm in the ohio river valley during the busy holiday season  exacerbated by problems with the airline s crew scheduling system  causing additional flight delays and cancellations   the delta subsidiary said in a statement.
ten-year tragedy of missing manic richey edwards  guitarist and lyricist for the manic street preachers  vanished 10 years ago  on 1 february 1995. his disappearance remains one of the most tragic mysteries in rock music.  for his devoted fans  richey edwards was an inspired and inspiring poet  a man who articulated their desperation and despair  who shouted the things most kept hidden. the manic street preachers may only have become stadium-conquering rock giants since his disappearance - but edwards was the figurehead for their first  dangerous and dazzling incarnation. edwards did not feature in the original line-up of the band  though. singer/guitarist james dean bradfield  bassist nicky wire and drummer sean moore were originally accompanied by a rhythm guitarist called flicker. but edwards replaced flicker in time for the band s self-financed debut  suicide alley  after designing the record s artwork.  after becoming a full-time member  edwards became a critical part of the band  writing lyrics and playing guitar - though in many concerts  he was not actually plugged in. but the fiercely intelligent edwards - who name-checked writers such as sylvia plath  george orwell and philip larkin - battled depression  alcohol problems  eating disorders  and self-harm. by the time the band released their third album  the holy bible  in october 1994  edwards had been admitted to hospital with depression. but in his last interview a few months later  seemed to be making plans for the future.  edwards walks out of the embassy hotel in london in the early morning  ahead of the band s us tour to promote the holy bible. in the following days  police issue a missing person alert and his parents  graham and sherry  plead for their son to let them know he is safe and well.  police discover edwards  car in a car park near the severn bridge near bristol - a notorious suicide spot. the discovery leads many to believe he has killed himself. the rest of the band stop touring and recording.  the band play their first concerts since edwards  disappearance as a trio  performing support slots for the stone roses on their uk stadium tour.  the manic street preachers release their first music since edwards  disappearance. a design for life reaches number two in the uk singles chart. the album everything must go follows.  the manics win best band and best album for everything must go at the brit awards.  a fan says she saw edwards in the hippy resort of goa  india. interpol are alerted but do not track him down.  graham and sherry edwards fly to the spanish island of fuerteventura six weeks after reports a man fitting their son s description has been seen in a bar called underground. the report comes to nothing.  edwards  sister rachel makes an emotional tv appeal five years after the disappearance.  i d just like to say to him if he is able to listen that we do love him very much and we d like him to come back - me  mum and dad   she said.  the band play a concert in the cuban capital  havana - the first contemporary western rock band to play there.  on the seventh anniversary of his disappearance  police offer edwards  parents the opportunity to sign a death certificate. they refuse. the big issue magazine  which supports homelessness charities  prints the last known picture of edwards in a fresh plea for information.  a pair of trainers containing human bones washed up on the banks of the river severn have no link to edwards  police say.  the last song written by edwards - a song called judge y self  which was to have been used for the judge dredd film soundtrack - is released on the b-side compilation lipstick traces. a skeleton found by the river severn is not edwards  tests reveal.  the manics  seventh studio album  lifeblood  features a song dedicated to edwards called cardiff afterlife.  the remaining manic street preachers members continue to pay a quarter of the band s royalties into an account held in his name.
keegan hails comeback king fowler manchester city boss kevin keegan has praised striker robbie fowler for his landmark return to form.  the 29-year-old  out of favour at city earlier this season  took his premiership goal tally past 150 with a brace in monday s 3-2 win at norwich.  he is still a quality player and knows where the net is - we have just got to supply him with ammunition and  in the end  we did   keegan said.  he has worked hard to get back to where he is now.  the former liverpool striker  who moved to city in 2003 after a poor stint at leeds  has battled back into first-team contention after struggling with fitness at the start of the season.  fowler overtook les ferdinand on tuesday evening to become the third highest scorer of all time in the premiership  with 151 goals  and he only trails alan shearer (250) and andy cole (173). and keegan believes there is still more to come from the former england forward.  he can get better if we can supply him better   added keegan.  people want to write him off but if he has kept the articles of those people who have written him off he could throw them back at them and they would be left with a bit of egg on their face.  fowler s double strike helped city come back from two goals down to clinch a dramatic win at carrow road and keegan sympathised with norwich boss nigel worthington afterwards.  i feel a bit for nigel worthington   he said.  his team have got great character  they have a lot of drive and enthusiasm.  i know it is a killer blow for norwich but i really think they have brought something to the premiership.  the stadium and the atmosphere is great  it is just a tough league to stay in - as they are finding out and as we know.
dollar hits new low versus euro the us dollar has continued its record-breaking slide and has tumbled to a new low against the euro.  investors are betting that the european central bank (ecb) will not do anything to weaken the euro  while the us is thought to favour a declining dollar. the us is struggling with a ballooning trade deficit and analysts said one of the easiest ways to fund it was by allowing a depreciation of the dollar. they have predicted that the dollar is likely to fall even further.  the us currency was trading at $1.364 per euro at 1800 gmt on monday. this compares with $1.354 to the euro in late trading in new york on friday  which was then a record low.  the dollar has weakened sharply since september when it traded about $1.20 against the euro. it has lost 7% this year  while against the japanese yen it is down 3.2%. traders said that thin trading levels had amplified monday s move.  it s not going to take much to push [the dollar] one way or the other   said grant wilson of mellon bank. liquidity - a measure of the number of parties willing to trade in the market - was about half that of a normal working day  traders said.
celtic unhappy over bulgaria date martin o neill hopes to block stilian petrov s call-up by bulgaria during celtic s busy festive programme.  the celtic manager does not view the friendly against valenciana - a region of spain - on 28 december as important.  i can t say i was overly pleased at the fixture being played just after christmas   said o neill.  we will have to speak with the bulgarian fa. it s their prerogative for them to arrange a fixture and our prerogative how we handle it.  bulgaria s game comes between celtic s boxing day meeting with hearts and their 2 january fixture against livingston. o neill believes the extra game will not help a midfielder whose season has already been affected by injury.  they have organised a game at a rather awkward time   he added.  when we were out playing barcelona  i spoke with the bulgarian manager  hristo stoichkov  and he mentioned this game to me.  we pay his wages  we are the ones that if an awkward fixture is going to be played at some stage or another it should be to our benefit  rather than anyone else.  i have said this before  but bulgaria are the one nation who seem to organise a lot of friendly games.
brown names 16 march for budget chancellor gordon brown will deliver his budget to the house of commons on 16 march  the treasury has announced.  the budget  likely to be the last before the general election  will be at 1230 gmt on that wednesday  just after prime minister s question time. the annual event is when the chancellor outlines the government s taxation and broader economic predictions. it is likely to set out much of the tax and spending battleground for the election  widely expected on 5 may.  next month s budget will be mr brown s eighth since labour came to power in 1997. if a may election is called  there could be as little as 18 days between the budget and the announcement of a date for the election. a shortened finance bill would have to be rushed through parliament with all-party support to allow the government to continue collecting revenue. the full finance bill  with the budget measures in it  would then be returned to the commons after the election  if labour secures another term in office. as mr brown announced the budget date in a short ministerial statement  accountancy firm ernst & young urged him to put politics aside and focus on the long-term requirements of the economy.  in the budgets that were given immediately before the last six elections  taxes were cut by the incumbent chancellor and  in many cases  taxes were increased soon after the election result   said aidan o carroll  e&y s uk head of tax.
greek pair set for hearing kostas kenteris and katerina thanou will fight the provisional two-year bans imposed on them by the iaaf at an independent tribunal this weekend.  athletics  ruling body took action against the pair for failing to take drugs tests before the athens olympics. an independent tribunal of the greek track and field federation will meet to decide whether to ratify the sanction. the sprint duo face charges of failing to give information on their location and refusing to submit to a drugs test. kenteris  lawyer gregory ioannidis told bbc sport:  we refute both charges as unsubstantiated and illogical.  there have been certain breaches in the correct application of the rules on behalf of the sporting authorities and their officials  and these procedural breaches have also violated my client s rights.  there is also evidence that proves the fact that my client has been persecuted.  ioannidis  who is a law lecturer at the university of buckingham  added:  one of the important rights and foundations of law and justice - that the accused should be presumed innocent unless proved otherwise - has been tarnished.  the panel will also decide on the two-year ban imposed on the athletes  controversial coach christos tzekos by the iaaf. kenteris  the 2000 olympic 200m champion  and thanou  the women s 100m silver medallist from the same games in sydney  quit the olympics on 18 august after failing to give samples on the eve of the opening ceremony.  testers could not find them at the olympic village and the duo were later admitted to hospital after claiming to have been involved in a motorcycle accident. they also missed tests in tel aviv  chicago and athens before the games. in imposing two-year suspensions on the duo on 22 december  the iaaf described their explanations for missing the tests as  unacceptable . whatever the findings of the independent tribunal  all parties will have the right to appeal to the court of arbitration for sport. the tribunal hearing will take place at the hellenic olympic committee building. it will start at 1200 gmt on saturday and is expected to finish early next week. the tribunal panel will consist of five members - president konstantinos panagopoulos and panagiotis dimakos  haralabos hrisanthakis  stilianos perakis and ioannis karmis. kenteris and thanou also face criminal charges in greece for allegedly faking the motorcycle accident. eight criminal charges have been laid against the sprinters as well as tzekos  an eyewitness to the accident and hospital officials. but there has been speculation that the charges could be dropped.
gallas sees two-horse race chelsea s william gallas believes they will battle it out with arsenal for the premiership in the coming months.   it ll be a two-horse race all the way to the end of the season because we are both going to give it everything   he told bbc sport.  you need to be good and you need a lot of luck. you need a bit of both but it will be as hard for the arsenal players as it is for the chelsea boys.   we know that we have got the power in our hands just now   added gallas.   but you never know what is going to happen in football - two seasons ago manchester united picked up so many points towards the end of the season when they won the title.  obviously  nobody at chelsea wants to come second but you never know what happens in football.  we will be challenging to come first as much as every arsenal player will be challenging to come first.  gallas has been given extra confidence by the impact manager jose mourinho has had since taking over as manager during the summer.  and the french international defender believes mourinho is perfectly suited to boss the squad of chelsea stars and says his managerial expertise will prevent any player revolt.  it s only normal when you have got a team put together of such big names that you put the finishing touch to it and the finishing touch at chelsea is a fantastic manager like mourinho   he said.  he is the icing on the cake at the club. he has this fantastic knack of thinking of everything.  another incredible quality that mourinho has is that every player  even though the fans may consider them to be a stars  within the dressing-room they are absolutely equal.  mourinho reminds everyone but he doesn t have to because he has created a wonderful atmosphere where everybody is playing and laughing every day.  it is a changed dressing-room from the atmosphere there was last year.
rem concerts blighted by illness us rock band rem have been forced to cancel concerts after bass player mike mills was taken to hospital suffering from  severe flu-like symptoms .  the band were forced to cut short monday night s show in sheffield  and have cancelled tuesday s glasgow date. mills could  hardly stand up  let alone play   said an rem spokesman  who added he is now  resting  in hospital. the remainder of the band played a short acoustic set on monday. tuesday s gig has been rescheduled for 15 june. those who had a ticket for the show in glasgow are being advised to retain their ticket stub so they can attend the new date. the band s spokesman said that they would review their remaining dates on a  day-to-day basis   based on doctors  advice to mills.  obviously we all want mike to get better  and clearly we all want to play the shows. rest assured we will do so as soon as possible   he said.  the band were still hopeful they would be able to make their wednesday date  added the spokesman. rem played accoustic versions of their hits losing my religion  i ve been high  leaving new york and the one i love to the sheffield arena audience on monday. the band had originally been scheduled to play four dates in the uk as part of a world tour. in 1995 former drummer bill berry collapsed in switzerland while the band was on tour  having suffered a ruptured aneurysm. he made a full recovery  only to leave the band two years later.
eu fraud clampdown urged eu member states are failing to report fraud and irregularities in eu funds on a consistent basis  the uk s public spending watchdog has said.  the national audit office said although the latest figures showed reported fraud was falling  the eu still had no common definition of fraud. it also expressed concern that  for the 10th year  the european court of auditors had qualified the eu accounts. the nao urged the government to push for improvements in reporting fraud. it said member states needed to be more accountable on how money was spent. the report said:  member states still do not report fraud and other irregularities to the european anti-fraud office on a consistent basis.   as the court has now qualified its opinion on the community accounts for a decade  it is essential for all the authorities involved to contribute to the strengthening of the audit of eu revenue and expenditure and improving accountability for the financial management and use of eu resources.  it said there were 922 cases of reported fraud or irregularities in eu funds in the uk in 2003  worth £38.5m (52m euros)  up from 831 cases worth £35.7m in 2002. at the same time  reported fraud throughout the eu dropped from 10 276 cases worth £808m to 8 177 cases worth £644m. edward leigh  chairman of the commons public accounts committee  said britain had to set an example when it assumed the eu presidency.   any fraud in other member states is potentially fraud against the uk taxpayer  given that we are the second largest net contributor to the community   he said.  departments responsible for administering eu funds need to make sure that they re doing everything possible to weed out improper spending.  the government must take the opportunity afforded by the uk presidency of the eu to press the commission and other member states to take an equally robust stance against fraud and irregularity  and raise overall standards of financial management.  a spokesman for the european anti-fraud office said the organisation agreed with the nao s assessment of fraud reporting.  the quality of reporting does differ from member state to member state  and there is room for improvement   spokesman jorg wojahn said. he added that there is generally good co-operation with member states and the anti-fraud office on specific cases of fraud  with the statistics studied by nao providing a  good overview for planning strategic ways of detecting fraud .
funding cut hits wales students the wales students rugby side has become a casualty of the welsh rugby union s reorganisation at youth level.  an amalgamated under-18 side formed from separate schools and national youth teams plays its first match on thursday  against italy at the gnoll. but that move has seen the wru decide to end its funding of representative sides such as wales students. as a result  traditional international fixtures against england and france in the new year have been cancelled. the welsh students rugby football union feels that it is unable to properly prepare for or stage the matches. the secretary of the welsh students rugby football union  reverend eldon phillips  said:  it is a shame that fixtures cannot be maintained this year.  the competition provided by the strong english and french teams has enabled the welsh students to test themselves in high quality matches.  the increasing number of young rugby players entering higher education look for the biggest challenge  that is representative rugby  but this year that opportunity will be denied them. players who have played for wales students before going on to win full senior representative honours include robert jones  rob howley  jon humphreys  darren morris  martyn williams and ceri sweeney.
england 17-18 france england suffered an eighth defeat in 11 tests as scrum-half dimitri yachvili booted france to victory at twickenham.  two converted tries from olly barkley and josh lewsey helped the world champions to a 17-6 half-time lead. but charlie hodgson and barkley missed six penalties between them  while yachvili landed six for france to put the visitors in front. england could have won the game with three minutes left  but hodgson pushed an easy drop goal opportunity wide. it was a dismal defeat for england  coming hard on the heels of an opening six nations loss in wales. they should have put the game well beyond france s reach  but remarkably remained scoreless for the entire second half. a scrappy opening quarter saw both sides betray the lack of confidence engendered by poor opening displays against wales and scotland respectively. hodgson had an early opportunity to settle english nerves but pushed a straightforward penalty attempt wide. but a probing kick from france centre damien traille saw mark cueto penalised for holding on to the ball in the tackle  yachvili giving france the lead with a kick from wide out.  france twice turned over england ball at the breakdown early on as the home side struggled to generate forward momentum  one ben kay charge apart. a spell of tit-for-tat kicking emphasised the caution on both sides  until england refused a possible three points to kick a penalty to the corner  only to botch the subsequent line-out. but england made the breakthrough after 19 minutes  when a faltering move off the back of a scrum led to the opening try. jamie noon took a short pass from barkley and ran a good angle to plough through yann delaigue s flimsy tackle before sending his centre partner through to score at the posts.  hodgson converted and added a penalty after one of several french infringements on the floor for a 10-3 lead. the fly-half failed to dispense punishment though with a scuffed attempt after france full-back pepito elhorga  scragged by lewsey  threw the ball into touch. barkley also missed two longer-range efforts as the first half drew to a close  but by then england had scored a second converted try. after a series of phases lock danny grewcock ran hard at the french defence and off-loaded out of sylvain marconnet s tackle to lewsey. the industrious wing cut back in on an angle and handed off hooker sebastien bruno to sprint over. after a dire opening to the second half  france threw on three forward replacements in an attempt to rectify the situation  wing jimmy marlu having already departed injured. yachvili nibbled away at the lead with a third penalty after 51 minutes.  and when lewis moody was twice penalised - for handling in a ruck and then straying offside - the scrum-half s unerring left boot cut the deficit to two points. barkley then missed his third long-range effort to increase the tension. and after seeing another attempt drop just short  yachvili put france ahead with his sixth penalty with 11 minutes left.  england sent on ben cohen and matt dawson  and after barkley s kick saw christophe dominici take the ball over his own line  the stage was set for a victory platform. but even after a poor scrummage  hodgson had the chance to seal victory but pushed his drop-goal attempt wide. england threw everything at the french in the final frantic moments  but the visitors held on for their first win at twickenham since 1997.  j robinson (capt); m cueto  j noon  o barkley  j lewsey; c hodgson  h ellis; g rowntree  s thompson  p vickery; d grewcock  b kay; j worsley  l moody  m corry.  a titterrell  a sheridan  s borthwick  a hazell  m dawson  h paul  b cohen.  p elhorga; c dominici  b liebenberg  d traille  j marlu; y delaigue  d yachvili; s marconnet  s bruno  n mas; f pelous (capt)  j thion  s betsen  j bonnaire  s chabal.  w servat  j milloud  g lamboley  y nyanga  p mignoni  f michalak  j-p grandclaude.  paddy o brien (new zealand)
warning over windows word files writing a microsoft word document can be a dangerous business  according to document security firm workshare.  up to 75% of all business documents contained sensitive information most firms would not want exposed  a survey by the firm revealed. to make matters worse 90% of those companies questioned had no idea that confidential information was leaking. the report warns firms to do a better job of policing documents as corporate compliance becomes more binding.  sensitive information inadvertently leaked in documents includes confidential contractual terms  competitive information that rivals would be keen to see and special deals for key customers  said andrew pearson  european boss of workshare which commissioned the research.  the efficiencies the internet has brought in such as instant access to information have also created security and control issues too   he said. the problem is particularly acute with documents prepared using microsoft word because of the way it maintains hidden records about editing changes. as documents get passed around  worked on and amended by different staff members the sensitive information finds its way into documents. poor control over the editing and amending process can mean that information that should be expunged survives final edits. microsoft  however  does provide an add-on tool for windows pcs that fixes the problem.  the remove hidden data add-in is a tool that you can use to remove personal or hidden data that might not be immediately apparent when you view the document in your microsoft office application   says the instructions on microsoft s website. microsoft recommends that the tool is used before people publish any word document. a tool for apple machines running word is not available. workshare surveyed firms around the world and found that  on average  31% of documents contained legally sensitive information but in many firms up to three-quarters fell in to the high risk category. often  said mr pearson  this sensitive information was invisible because it got deleted and changed as different drafts were prepared.  however  the way that windows works means that earlier versions can be recalled and reconstructed by those keen to see how a document has evolved. few firms have any knowledge of the existence of this so-called metadata about the changes that a document has gone through or that it can be reconstructed. the discovery of this hidden information could prove embarrassing for companies if  for instance  those tendering for contracts found out about the changes to terms of a deal being negotiated. the research revealed that a document s metadata could be substantial as  on average  only 40% of contributors  changes to a document make it to the final draft. problems with documents could mean trouble for firms as regulatory bodies step up scrutiny and compliance laws start to bite  said mr pearson.
casino royale is next bond movie casino royale  author ian fleming s first james bond book  is to be the next bond film  with goldeneye director martin campbell behind the camera.  it will be the 21st james bond film to hit the big screen  and speculation has been rife over who will play the lead. casino royale was turned into a spoof spy movie by john huston in 1967  with david niven in the lead role. pierce brosnan led the past four bond films but said producers axed him after offering him the chance to return. among the favourites to take over the coveted role are scottish actor dougray scott  oscar nominee clive owen and australian star hugh jackman. producers say no decision has yet been made on who will become the seventh actor  including niven  to play bond on film. kill bill director quentin tarantino had talked of wanting to take on the casino royale project  and said he had spoken to brosnan about it.  shooting on casino royale is expected to begin once campbell has finished work on the legend of zorro  a sequel to the mask of zorro  starring catherine zeta jones and antonio banderas. producers barbara broccoli and michael g wilson expect the film to be released in 2006.  the script will once again be developed by neal purvis and robert wade who have both worked on two previous bond movies. fleming s book saw the introduction of bond pitted against a russian spy in a game of baccarat. simultaneously  a woman arrives on the scene to take his eye off the game. the novel is one of fleming s most violent and sadistic stories  with 007 suffering a savage beating from his nemesis le chiffre. in addition to the 1967 film  it was also adapted for television in 1954 with actor barry nelson as an americanised  jimmy  bond. mgm vice chairman chris mcgurk said:  martin (campbell) is an incredibly exciting film-maker. goldeneye was a wonderful movie and helped reinvigorate the bond franchise. we re thrilled to have him back to direct the newest bond.  new zealand-born campbell moved to the uk in 1966 and directed tv series such as the professionals  minder and bergerac. his film credits include edge of darkness  vertical limit and beyond borders  which starred angelina jolie and clive owen.
beastie boys win sampling battle us rappers beastie boys have won their long-running battle over the use of a sample in their song pass the mic.  the punk-rappers used three notes of music from flautist james newton s choir in their track from 1992. although the group had paid a licence fee for the sample  mr newton said his copyright had been infringed. but the us court of appeal upheld its original decision that the group did not have to pay an additional fee to license the underlying composition. the beastie boys - michael diamond  adam horowitz  and adam yauch - are considered to be one of early pioneers of sampling music.  sampling  now a standard practice among musicians  involves taking a segment of one track and using it in a different song. a three-judge panel of the court held in 2003 that the band had abided by copyright protections by paying a licence fee for a sample of mr newton s recording. that finding upheld a lower-court dismissal of the case in favour of the beastie boys.  we hold that beastie boys  use of a brief segment of that composition  consisting of three notes separated by a half-step over a background c note  is not sufficient to sustain a claim for infringement of newton s copyright   chief judge mary schroeder wrote in her opinion. mr newton is a critically acclaimed jazz and classical flutist  composer  performer  and university professor. mr newton and the beastie boys were not available for comment.
britain boosted by holmes double athletics fans endured a year of mixed emotions in 2004 as stunning victories went hand-in-hand with disappointing defeats and more drugs scandals.  kelly holmes finally fulfilled her potential by storming to double gold on the track at the olympic games. holmes helped erase the gloom hanging over team gb after their biggest medal hope  paula radcliffe  dropped out of the marathon and then the 10 000m. britain s men s 4x100m relay team also did their bit by taking a shock gold. holmes had started the year in disappointing style  falling over in the final of 1500m at the world indoor championships where she was favourite. her olympic build-up was clouded by self doubt but that proved unfounded as she overhauled rival maria mutola to win the 800m - her first global title. just five days later  the 34-year-old made it double gold in the 1500m. it was the first time in 84 years a briton has achieved the olympic middle-distance double. while holmes left athens as the star of team gb  it was radcliffe who carried expectations before the august games.  the 30-year-old marathon world record holder went into the athens event as favourite but an exhausted radcliffe dropped out after 23 miles in tears. her decision to enter the 10 000m five days later also backfired as she again pulled out with eight laps remaining.  but radcliffe helped put her olympic trauma behind her with a thrilling win in november s new york marathon. the 4x100m team grabbed some last-gasp glory for the british men s olympic squad after a poor start to the games.  it seemed as though athens would be the first games where the men would fail to win a medal with michael east the only individual track finalist in the 1500m. but darren campell  jason gardener  marlon devonish and mark lewis-francis made amends in the sprint relay. the quartet held off favourites the usa to win britain s first relay medal since 1912 in 38.07 seconds. gardener added the olympic relay crown to his world indoor title over 60m and  just like holmes  finally lived up to his promise in 2004. kelly sotherton completed team gb s athletics medal haul in athens with a surprise bronze in the heptathlon. the 28-year-old won her first championship medal since becoming a full-time athlete in 2003.  but it was a different story for britain s defending champion denise lewis  who withdrew on day two of the competition after some poor results. lewis  who was troubled by injury  has ruled out retiring while sotherton is tipped to build on her success. the athens olympics proved to be a landmark occasion for steve backley  who retired from competition after finishing fourth in the javelin. the battling 35-year-old leaves the sport with a vast medal haul including two silvers and one olympic bronze.  and backley s departure was balanced by the return of injury-hit decathlete dean macey  who came fourth in athens.  the continued improvement of sprinter abi oyepitan and long jumper chris tomlinson also boosted team gb. sadly  the 2004 olympics did not escape the problems of drugs misuse. on the eve of the games  greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou missed a drugs test and claimed to have been involved in a road crash.  kenteris  the 200m champion in 2000  and thanou have since been charged by the greek authorities and await trial. at the games  adrian annus (hammer)  robert fazelas (discus) and irina korzhanenko (shot) were all stripped of their titles because of doping issues. hungarian compatriots annus and fazelas both refused to give urine samples while russian korzhanenko tested positive for the steroid stanozolol.  the fallout from the thg scandal  which rocked the sport in 2003  continued to impact in olympic year. britain s 4x100m team took gold without the services of dwain chambers  who was handed a two-year ban in february after testing positive for steroid thg.  american kelli white was suspended and stripped of her world 100m and 200m titles after failing a drugs test. and world 400m champion jerome young landed a life ban from us chiefs after a second doping offence. russian pole vaulter yelena isinbayeva provided some light relief by smashing the world record seven times on her way to the world indoor and olympic titles. her rivalry with compatriot svetlana feofanova livened up the field events. morocco s hicham el guerrouj also delighted fans by racing to a historic olympic double in the 1500m and 5 000m.  and though there was no paula radcliffe in the london marathon  there was plenty of drama as kenyans evans rutto and margaret okayo took the titles. rutto held on to win despite slipping on some cobblestones and tumbling into a barrier. okayo also had to battle back after mistiming her tactics but clinched victory on her debut.
senior fannie mae bosses resign the two most senior executives at us mortgage giant fannie mae have resigned after accounting irregularities were uncovered at the company.  chief executive franklin raines  a former senior official in the clinton administration  and chief financial officer tim howard have left the firm. fannie mae was criticised by financial regulators and could have to restate its earnings by up to $9bn (£4.6bn). it is america s second largest financial institution.  recent investigations have exposed extensive accounting errors at fannie mae  which supplies funds to america s $8 trillion mortgage market. last week  the firm was admonished by the securities and exchange commission which said it had made major errors in its financial reporting.  the financial regulator said fannie mae would have to raise substantial new capital to restore its balance sheet. analysts said the sec s criticism made it impossible for fannie mae s senior executives to remain. mr raines  head of the office of management and budget under president clinton  has taken early retirement while mr howard has also stepped down  the company said on tuesday. kpmg  fannie mae s independent auditor  will also be replaced.  by my early retirement  i have held myself accountable   mr raines said in a statement.  fannie mae was found to have violated accounting rules relating to derivatives - financial instruments used to hedge against fluctuations in interest rates - and some pre-paid loans. as a result  it could be forced to restate $9bn in earnings over the past four years  effectively wiping out a third of the company s profits since 2001. although not making loans directly to buyers  fannie mae is the largest single player in the mortgage market  underwriting half of all us house purchases. the firm operates under charter from the us congress. it has faced stinging criticism from congressional leaders who held hearings into its finances earlier this year and from government regulator  the office of federal housing enterprise oversight (ofheo).  we are encouraged that the board s announcement signals a new culture and a new direction for fannie mae   armando falcon  ofheo director said. the problems afflicting fannie mae are just the latest to hit the us mortgage industry. freddie mac  the country s other largest mortgage firm  was forced to restate its earnings by $4.4bn last year and pay a $125m fine after an investigation of its books.
fox  too reliant on reality tv  the head of us tv network fox has admitted the broadcaster had relied too heavily on reality tv shows such as the poor-rating who s your daddy.  chief executive gail berman said  in the case of this fall we drifted to too much on the unscripted side . the series who s your daddy  where a young woman tries to pick her natural father for a cash prize caused outrage from adoption groups and rated badly. last season  fox s prime-time audience fell by 600 000 to 5.9 million. ms berman said:  i think the audience expects loud things from fox. sometimes they work  and sometimes they don t.   who s your daddy  the first episode of which was shown on 3 january  pulled in a disappointing audience of 6.3 million  according to the nielsen ratings system. five other episodes of the show had also been filmed will be dropped from fox s schedules  ms berman said. she was predicting a drop in ratings even for some of the network s established reality shows  such as american idol  which is due to start its fourth series this week. fox had unveiled a new strategy last year promising to launch new shows every season  including the traditionally quiet summer season. though that had met with a poor reception  ms berman said  there s no question that the audience  in our mind  is ready  willing and able to accept new programming in the summer . fox has changed this plan  launching new shows in may instead of june. one of the new shows will be the animated series american dad  made by seth macfarlane  the creator of family guy. that series  after becoming a hit on dvd  is also set to return with new episodes.
bath faced with tindall ultimatum mike tindall s agent has warned bath they have until next week to improve their contract offer to the england man or risk losing him to a rival club.  dipo alli says he has received an offer for tindall which dwarfs bath s deal and that two other clubs want to talk.  mike does not want to go into the six nations worrying about where he will be playing his club rugby next season   alli told the guardian newspaper.  it is up to (bath owner) andrew brownsword. he has to make it happen.  tindall is out of contract at the end of the season but it is understood that brownsword is unwilling to break the club s salary structure to accommodate the 26-year-old s demands. but alli insists the player is worth more than bath have put on the table.  mike has been at bath for eight years and wants to remain with the club and his demands are anything but excessive   the agent added.  but brownsword has to recognise mike s value and we want to resolve things by the end of next week.
newcastle line up babayaro newcastle manager graeme souness is closing in on signing chelsea defender celestine babayaro when the transfer window reopens.  souness is bidding to bolster his defence and  according to reports  contract negotiations are at an advanced stage with the player. babayaro has been in the premiership since 1997 when he moved to chelsea for £2.25m from anderlecht. but the 26-year-old has been surplus to requirements this season. souness would not be drawn on specifics over individual players.  but he said:  all i can tell you is that the chairman has worked really hard in the last couple of months to try to do deals.  we have said from day one we want to strengthen  and that is what we are hoping to do in the coming weeks.
barcelona title hopes hit by loss barcelona s pursuit of the spanish title took a blow on sunday as they fell to a 2-0 defeat at home to atletico madrid.  fernando torres gave athletico an ideal start with a goal in the first minute. ronaldino wasted a second-half chance to equalise for barca when he put a penalty wide  but torres made no such mistake with a last-minute spot-kick. the defeat  coupled with real madrid s 4-0 win over espanyol on saturday  reduces barca s lead to four points. former everton midfielder thomas gravesen scored his first goal for real in the comfortable victory at the bernabeu. zinedine zidane had opened the scoring before raul bagged a brace. gravesen  who replaced zidane  completed the scoring in the 84th minute with a low shot. david beckham  watched by sven-goran eriksson  came off in the 67th minute with a shoulder injury but should be fit for england s game against holland. england team-mate michael owen came on for raul after 76 minutes with the game already won. real have now won six consecutive primera liga games since coach wanderley luxemburgo took charge.
wi-fi web reaches farmers in peru a network of community computer centres  linked by wireless technology  is providing a helping hand for poor farmers in peru.  the pilot scheme in the huaral valley  80 kilometres north of the capital lima  aims to offer the 6 000-strong community up-to-date information on agricultural market prices and trends. the agricultural information project for farmers of the chancay-huaral valley also provides vital links between local organisations in charge of water irrigation  enabling them to coordinate their actions. more than 13 000 rural inhabitants  as well as 18 000 students in the region  will also benefit from the telecoms infrastructure.  the 14 telecentres uses only free open source software and affordable computer equipment. the network has been three years in the making and was officially inaugurated in september.  the non-government organisation  cepes (peruvian centre for social studies) led the $200 000 project  also backed by local institutions  the education and agriculture ministries  and european development organisations.  the plan includes training on computers and internet skills for both operators and users of the system   said carlos saldarriaga  technical coordinator at cepes. farmers are also taking extra lessons on how to apply the new information to make the most of their plots of land. the board of irrigation users which runs the computer centres  aims to make the network self-sustainable within three years  through the cash generated by using the telecentres as internet cafes.  one of the key elements of the project is the agricultural information system  with its flagship huaral.org website. there  farmers can find the prices for local produce  as well as information on topics ranging from plague prevention to the latest farming techniques. the system also helps the inhabitants of the chancay-huaral valley to organise their vital irrigation systems.  water is the main element that unites them all. it is a precious element in peru s coastal areas  because it is so scarce  and therefore it is necessary to have proper irrigation systems to make the most of it   mr saldarriaga told the bbc news website. the information network also allows farmers to look beyond their own region  and share experiences with other colleagues from the rest of peru and even around the world.  cepes says the involvement of the farmers has been key in the project s success.  throughout the last three years  the people have provided a vital thrust to the project; they feel it belongs to them   said mr saldarriaga. the community training sessions  attended by an equal number of men and women  have been the perfect showcase for their enthusiasm.  we have had an excellent response  mainly from young people. but we have also had a great feedback when we trained 40 or 50-year old women  who were seeing a computer for the first time in their lives.  so far  the huaral programme promoters say the experience has been very positive  and are already planning on spreading the model among other farmers  organisations in peru.  this is a pilot project  and we have been very keen on its cloning potential in other places   underlined mr saldarriaga.  the cepes researcher recalls what happened in cuyo  a 50-family community with no electricity  during the construction of the local telecentre site. there it was necessary to build a mini-hydraulic dam in order to generate 2kw worth of power for the computers  the communications equipment and the cabin lights.  it was already dark when the technicians realised they didn t have any light bulbs to test the generator  so they turned up to the local store to buy light bulbs   recalls carlos saldarriaga.  the logical answer was  we don t sell any   so they had to wait until the next morning to do the testing.  now  with the wireless network  cuyo as well as the other communities is no longer isolated.
gadget market  to grow in 2005  the explosion in consumer technology is to continue into 2005  delegates at the world s largest gadget show  in las vegas  have been told.  the number of gadgets in the shops is predicted to grow by 11%  while devices which talk to each other will become increasingly important.  everything is going digital   kirsten pfeifer from the consumer electronics association  told the bbc news website. the consumer electronics show (ces) featured the pick of 2005 s products.  consumers are controlling what they want and technologies like hdtvs [high-definition tvs]  digital radio  and digital cameras will remain strong in 2005.  all the products on show really showed the breadth and depth of the industry.  despite showing diversity  some delegates attending complained that the showcase lacked as much  wow factor  as in previous years.  the portable technologies on show also reflected one of the buzzwords of ces  which was the  time and place shifting  of multimedia content - being able to watch and listen to video and music anywhere  at any time. at the start of last year s ces  the cea predicted there would be an average growth of 4% in 2004. that figure was surpassed with the rise in popularity of portable digital music players  personal video recorders and digital cameras. it was clear also that gadgets are becoming a lot more about lifestyle choice  with fashion and personalisation becoming increasingly key to the way gadgets are designed. part of this has been the rise in spending power of the  generation x-ers  who have grown up with technology and who now have the spending power and desire for more devices that suit them. more than 57% of the consumer electronics market is made up of female buyers  according to cea research. hybrid devices  which combine a number of multimedia functions  were also in evidence on the show floor.  a lot of this is driven by just the ability to do it   said stephen baker  a consumer electronics analyst with retail research firm npd group.  some of these functions cost next to nothing to add.   as well as the show floor showcasing everything from tiny wearable mp3 players to giant high-definition tvs  several keynote speeches were made by industry leaders  such as microsoft chief bill gates. despite several embarrassing technical glitches during mr gate s pre-show speech  he announced several new partnerships - mainly for the us market. he unveiled new ways of letting people take tv shows recorded on personal video recorders and watch them back on portable devices. he disappointed some  however  by failing to announce any details of the next generation of the xbox games console. another disappointment was the lack of exposure sony s new portable games device  the psp  had at the show. sony said the much-anticipated gadget would most likely start shipping in march for the us and europe. it went on sale in japan before christmas. there were only two psps embedded in glass cabinets at the show though and no representatives to discuss further details. a sony representative told the bbc news website this was because sony did not consider it to be part of their  consumer technology  offering.  elsewhere at the show  there was a plethora of colour and plasma screens  including samsung s 102-inch (2.6 metre) plasma - the largest in the world. industry experts were also excited about high-definition technologies coming to the fore in 2005  with new formats for dvds coming out which will hold six times as much data as conventional dvds. with so many devices on the move there were a lot of products on show offering external storage  like seagate s 5gb pocket sized external hard drive  which won an innovation for engineering and design prize. more than 120 000 trade professionals attended ces in las vegas  which officially ran from 6 to 9 january.
watchdog probes e-mail deletions the information commissioner says he is urgently asking for details of cabinet office orders telling staff to delete e-mails more than three months old.  richard thomas  totally condemned  the deletion of e-mails to prevent their disclosure under freedom of information laws coming into force on 1 january. government guidance said e-mails should only be deleted if they served  no current purpose   mr thomas said. the tories and the lib dems have questioned the timing of the new rules.  tory leader michael howard has written to tony blair demanding an explanation of the new rules on e-mail retention. on monday lib dem constitutional affairs committee chairman alan beith warned that the deletion of millions of government e-mails could harm the ability of key probes like the hutton inquiry. the timing of the new rules just before the freedom of information act comes into forces was  too unlikely to have been a coincidence   mr beith said. but a cabinet office spokeswoman said the move was not about the new laws or  the destruction of important records . mr beith urged the information commissioner to look at how the  e-mail regime  could  support the freedom of information regime .  mr thomas said:  the new act of parliament makes it very clear that to destroy records in order to prevent their disclosure becomes a criminal offence.  he said there was already clear guidance on the retention of e-mails contained in a code of practice from the lord chancellor. all e-mails are subject to the freedom of information laws  but the important thing was the content of the e-mail  said mr thomas.   if in doubt retain  that has been the long-standing principle of the civil service and public authorities. it s only when you ve got no further use for the particular record that it may be legitimate to destroy it.  but any deliberate destruction to avoid the possibility of later disclosure is to be totally condemned.  the freedom of information act will cover england  wales and northern ireland from next year. similar measures are being brought in at the same time in scotland. it provides the public with a right of access to information held by about 100 000 public bodies  subject to various exemptions. its implementation will be monitored by the information commissioner.
brown s poll campaign move denied the government has denied reports that gordon brown is preparing to oust alan milburn as labour s election supremo.  work and pensions minister alan johnson said it was wrong to suggest the chancellor would usurp mr milburn  adding they would  work as a team . a report in the sunday business claimed mr brown has been asked to take charge of media strategy  while mr milburn would move to a behind-the-scenes role. labour has always maintained mr brown would have a central campaign role.  but many labour backbenchers are said to be dissatisfied with the way election campaigning has gone and have said they wanted to see the chancellor take a bigger role. some commentators say the tories have grasped the initiative  putting labour on the back foot  having to respond to conservative policy announcements. these claims follow various opinion polls which suggest the tories have been gaining on labour. party strategists are believed to want to bring mr brown to centre-stage having seen support rise  in private polling  after his budget last week. but another report in the sunday telegraph claims mr milburn is unwilling to allow any new role for the chancellor to come at his expense. mr johnson told bbc news:  gordon brown will play a central role in any election campaign.  they were wrong when they said milburn was ousting brown and they re wrong now if they are saying brown is ousting milburn. we work as a team.  mr milburn has repeatedly said the chancellor was key to the campaign and dismissed claims of a rift. neither downing street nor the labour party would comment directly on the reports.
ad sales boost time warner profit quarterly profits at us media giant timewarner jumped 76% to $1.13bn (£600m) for the three months to december  from $639m year-earlier.  the firm  which is now one of the biggest investors in google  benefited from sales of high-speed internet connections and higher advert sales. timewarner said fourth quarter sales rose 2% to $11.1bn from $10.9bn. its profits were buoyed by one-off gains which offset a profit dip at warner bros  and less users for aol.  time warner said on friday that it now owns 8% of search-engine google. but its own internet business  aol  had has mixed fortunes. it lost 464 000 subscribers in the fourth quarter profits were lower than in the preceding three quarters. however  the company said aol s underlying profit before exceptional items rose 8% on the back of stronger internet advertising revenues. it hopes to increase subscribers by offering the online service free to timewarner internet customers and will try to sign up aol s existing customers for high-speed broadband. timewarner also has to restate 2000 and 2003 results following a probe by the us securities exchange commission (sec)  which is close to concluding.  time warner s fourth quarter profits were slightly better than analysts  expectations. but its film division saw profits slump 27% to $284m  helped by box-office flops alexander and catwoman  a sharp contrast to year-earlier  when the third and final film in the lord of the rings trilogy boosted results. for the full-year  timewarner posted a profit of $3.36bn  up 27% from its 2003 performance  while revenues grew 6.4% to $42.09bn.  our financial performance was strong  meeting or exceeding all of our full-year objectives and greatly enhancing our flexibility   chairman and chief executive richard parsons said. for 2005  timewarner is projecting operating earnings growth of around 5%  and also expects higher revenue and wider profit margins.  timewarner is to restate its accounts as part of efforts to resolve an inquiry into aol by us market regulators. it has already offered to pay $300m to settle charges  in a deal that is under review by the sec. the company said it was unable to estimate the amount it needed to set aside for legal reserves  which it previously set at $500m. it intends to adjust the way it accounts for a deal with german music publisher bertelsmann s purchase of a stake in aol europe  which it had reported as advertising revenue. it will now book the sale of its stake in aol europe as a loss on the value of that stake.
celebrities get to stay in jungle all four contestants still remain in i m a celebrity ... get me out of here as no evictions were made on the television show on saturday.  contestants paul burrell  joe pasquale  janet street-porter and fran cosgrave were told by hosts ant and dec. natalie appleton s decision to quit the show last monday had given them all a stay of execution  the group were told. model sophie anderton was the last person to be voted off the itv1 show  set in the australian jungle. the four remaining stars will do a joint bushtucker trial on sunday.  former all saints singer natalie appleton 31  walked out of the show after learning she would face a fifth so-called bushtucker trial. the celebrities are chosen by the viewers to pass trials in order to win food for the rest of the camp. appleton had endured a torrid time during the programme  including a well-publicised row with sophie anderton. and on 26 november singer brian harvey quit as a contestant after he had a blazing row with janet street-porter.
oscars race enters final furlong the race for the oscars entered its final stages as the deadline for voters to choose their winners passed.  the 5 808 academy voters had until tuesday afternoon to return their ballots - any late submissions will not be included in the count. the next five days will be spent counting the voting forms and preparing the winners  envelopes. best actor nominee leonardo dicaprio is to present a statuette for the first time at the la ceremony on sunday.  the 30-year-old actor  who is nominated for playing howard hughes in the aviator  will join other hopefuls such as co-star cate blanchett  natalie portman and kate winslet as oscar presenters. the only people who will know the oscar winners before they are revealed at the ceremony will be the auditors who are in charge of looking after the ballot count.  after collating the results  they are responsible for sealing the results in the famous golden envelopes which will be revealed by a host of celebrity presenters at the ceremony. former academy award winners gwyneth paltrow  dustin hoffman and halle berry will also present prizes. the event at the kodak theatre will be attended by 3 300 people  including some of the best-known names in film  and organisers say they expect it will be watched on television by one billion people around the world. one current concern is the torrential rain which has lashed los angeles for the past week  flooding suburbs and causing mudslides. it is hoped the forecast for sunday  for cool weather but no rain  will prove accurate.  the last time it rained on oscars night was in the mid-to-late 1980s   said oscars communications director john pavlik.  we have had rain up until the day before the show many times  but for some reason the oscar gods always shine on sunday and we hope they will do so again this year   he added.
tv debate urged for party chiefs broadcasters should fix a date for a pre-election televised debate between the three main political leaders  according to the hansard society.  it would then be up to tony blair  michael howard and charles kennedy to decide whether to take part  the non-partisan charity said. chairman lord holme argued that prime ministers should not have the right of veto on a matter  of public interest .  the broadcasters should make the decision to go ahead   he said.  lord holme s proposal for a televised debate comes just four months after millions of viewers were able to watch us president george w bush slug it out verbally with his democratic challenger john kerry. he said it was a  democratically dubious proposition  that it was up to the incumbent prime minister to decide whether a similar event takes place here.  if mr blair did not want to take part  the broadcasters could go ahead with an empty chair or cancel the event and explain their reasons why  lord holme said.  what makes the present situation even less acceptable is that although mr howard and mr kennedy have said they would welcome a debate  no-one has heard directly from the prime minister   he said.  it has been left to nudges and winks  hints and briefings from his aides and campaign managers to imply that mr blair doesn t want one  but we haven t heard from the prime minister himself.   lord holme  who has campaigned for televised debates at previous elections  said broadcasters were  more than willing to cooperate with the arrangements . opinion polls suggested that the idea had the backing of the public who like comparing the personalities and policies of the contenders in their own homes  he said.  lord holme argued that as part of their public service obligations  broadcasters  should make the decision to go ahead  as soon as the election is called. an independent third-party body such as the hansard society or electoral commission could work out the ground rules so they were fair to participants and informative to the public  he said.  it would be up to each party leader to accept or refuse   said lord holme.   if the prime minister s reported position is true and he does want to take part  he would then be obliged to say why publicly.  the broadcasters would then have the option of cancelling the event for obvious and well-understood reasons  or going ahead with an empty chair.  either way would be preferable to the present hidden veto.  the hansard society has long campaigned for televised debates and has published reports on the issue in 1997 and 2001. tony blair has already ruled out taking part in a televised debate during the forthcoming election campaign. last month he said:  we answer this every election campaign and  for the reasons i have given before  the answer is no   he said at his monthly news conference.
oil prices fall back from highs oil prices retreated from four-month highs in early trading on tuesday after producers  cartel opec said it was now unlikely to cut production.  following the comments by acting opec secretary general adnan shihab-eldin  us light crude fell 32 cents to $51.43 a barrel. he said that high oil prices meant opec was unlikely to stick to its plan to cut output in the second quarter. in london  brent crude fell 32 cents to $49.74 a barrel.  opec members are next meeting to discuss production levels on 16 march. on monday  oil prices rose for a sixth straight session  reaching a four-month high as cold weather in the us threatened stocks of heating oil. us demand for heating oil was predicted to be about 14% above normal this week  while stocks were currently about 7.5% below the levels of a year ago. cold weather across europe has also put upward pressure on crude prices.
tories pledge free sports lessons children would be offered two hours  free sports training a week by a future tory government  the party has said.  the club2school policy would provide up to £250m yearly for local sports clubs in the uk to deliver after-school sport. the extra coaching would be funded by the national lottery and would come on top of the two hours of sport a week children are supposed to get in school. shadow home secretary david davis said five million children were being denied adequate sporting opportunities.  the plans would help tackle the  fastest growing rate of obesity in the developed world   he said. shadow sports minister lord moynihan said the policy would empower local clubs and create a lasting legacy.  we aim to shift the emphasis on after-school sport provision away from our overstretched teachers and schools directly in to the 151 000 sports clubs in the uk.  the tories say labour s plans to give all children two hours of sports lessons a week in schools have failed. government figures show that in england in 2002 only a third of schools at key stages 1  3 and 4 and two-fifths of schools at key stage 2  met that target. the tories also claim that of the £750m the prime minister pledged in 2000 to invest on school sports facilities  only £41m had been spent. but the big lottery fund has said that complex capital projects are involved - and it was confident the money would all be allocated by next year as intended.
gamers snap up new sony psp gamers have bought almost all of the first batch of sony s new playstation portable (psp) games console  which went on sale in japan on sunday.  thousands of people queued for hours to get hold of one of the 200 000 psps which were shipped to retailers. the handheld console can play games  music and movies and goes on sale in europe and north america next year. despite the demand sony said it would not increase the 500 000-strong stock of psps it plans to ship by year s end.  sony says it intends to ship three million of the consoles by march 2005. the company is hoping to challenge the dominance of nintendo in the handheld market. nintendo released its new ds console earlier this year and has already raised shipment targets for the device by 40%. the psp is selling in japan for 19 800 yen ($188; £98) while nintendo s ds console sells in the us and japan for $150 (£78). nintendo s goal is to ship 5 million of its new nintendo ds handheld consoles by march 2005.
france v wales (sat) stade de france  paris  saturday  26 february  1600 gmt  bbc1  radio 4 lw and this website  france may have beaten scotland and england but they were tedious and uninspired throughout both matches. wales  on the other hand  have played some fine rugby and have made their best start since they last won the title in 1994. they also have a good record at the stade de france  having won their first two games there  in 1999 and 2001. wales have made two changes from the team that thrashed italy 38-8 in rome.  kevin morgan takes over from his injured newport-gwent dragons colleague hal luscombe on the right wing. in the pack neath-swansea ospreys forward ryan jones bas been brought on the blind-side flank to beef up the wales back row in place of jonathan thomas. wales coach mike ruddock is determined that his team will not go into their shells after their promising start to the championship.  graham henry (former wales coach) said a couple of years ago that we should  be bold  when going to france  and he was proved right   said ruddock.  that is a great way to approach the game  and something we will further endorse with the players this week.   despite their stuttering displays in their first two games defending champions france are also unbeaten. under-pressure coach bernard laporte has made four changes  with yannick nyanga  the debutant julien laharrague  aurelien rougerie and yannick jauzion coming into the side. france have been criticised for the absence of traditional  french flair  as they have ground their way to victory so far this year but captain fabien pelous sees hope on the horizon.  i get the impression we are getting better   he said.  against wales  which is different from the teams we have beaten  i hope we can show our proper game.   j laharrague; a rougerie  y jauzion  d traille  c dominici; y delaigue  d yachvili; s marconnet  s bruno  n mas; f pelous (capt)  j thion; s betsen  y nyanga  j bonnaire (bourgoin).  w servat  o milloud  g lamboley  i harinordoquy  p mignoni  f michalak  j-p grandclaude.  g thomas (capt); k morgan  t shanklin  g henson  s williams; s jones  d peel; g jenkins  m davies  a jones; b cockbain  r sidoli; r jones  m williams  m owen.  r mcbryde  j yapp  j thomas  r sowden-taylor  g cooper  c sweeney  r williams.
last star wars  not for children  the sixth and final star wars movie may not be suitable for young children  film-maker george lucas has said.  he told us tv show 60 minutes that revenge of the sith would be the darkest and most violent of the series.  i don t think i would take a five or six-year-old to this   he told the cbs programme  to be aired on sunday. lucas predicted the film would get a us rating advising parents some scenes may be unsuitable for under-13s. it opens in the uk and us on 19 may. he said he expected the film would be classified pg-13 - roughly equivalent to a british 12a rating.  the five previous star wars films have all carried less restrictive pg - parental guidance - ratings in the us. in the uk  they have all been passed u - suitable for all - with the exception of attack of the clones  which got a pg rating in 2002. revenge of the sith - the third prequel to the original 1977 star wars film - chronicles the transformation of the heroic anakin skywalker into the evil darth vader as he travels to a hell-like planet composed of erupting volcanoes and molten lava.  we re going to watch him make a pact with the devil   lucas said.  the film is much more dark  more emotional. it s much more of a tragedy.
us crude prices surge above $53 us crude prices have soared to fresh four-month highs above $53 in the us as refinery problems propelled petrol prices to an all-time high.  us light sweet crude futures jumped to $53.09 a barrel in new york before closing at $53.03. the gains tracked a surge in us gasoline futures to a record high of $1.4850 a gallon. the jump followed a fire at western refining company s refinery in texas  which shut down petrol production. a spokesman for the group was unable to say when the production unit would be back up and running.  this market simply wants to go up   citigroup global markets analyst kyle cooper told reuters news agency. ed silliere  analyst at energy merchant  added:  gasoline is up because of the refinery issues in texas  which means there will be a scramble for product in the (us) gulf coast.   elsewhere  a refinery in houston was closed due to mechanical problems  while on tuesday production at bp s texas city refinery was taken down for a short time. in the approach to spring  the market becomes much more sensitive to problems with petrol production as dealers anticipate rising demand for fuel ahead of the holiday season. the rise in prices came despite a us government report that showed domestic supplies of fuel oil and fuel were rising. meanwhile  oil production cartel opec s recent announcement that it was now unlikely to cut production levels has also failed to calm fears on the market. oil prices are roughly 45% higher than a year ago and have risen sharply in recent weeks due to a combination of colder weather  the declining value of the dollar and fears that opec could rein in production to head off a seasonal drop in demand. instability in iraq and underlying fears about terrorism have also played a part in the rally.
best person  for top legal job the  best person for the job  should be appointed lord chancellor  and not necessarily a lawyer or mp  the courts minister has told mps.  under reforms  the post of lord chancellor is to be stripped of its judicial functions.  the lord chancellor...no more needs to be a lawyer than the secretary of health needs to be a doctor   said courts minister christopher leslie. the constitutional reform bill was entering its second reading on monday. mr leslie said:  the prime minister should be able to appoint the best person for the job whether they sit in the house of lords or the house of commons.  under the reforms  the law lords will also be replaced as the uk s highest legal authority by a supreme court and judges will be appointed by an independent panel rather than ministers.  in december the lords rejected a plea by current lord chancellor lord falconer that the holder of the job should not necessarily be a lawyer or a peer. the peers voted by 229 to 206 to say in law that lord chancellors must also be peers. the debate was carried over from the last parliamentary session  but with an impending general election time is crucial for the government to get the bill passed. mr leslie said it was irrelevant whether the post was called secretary of state for constitutional affairs or lord chancellor. he said:  what matters most is...whether it is reformed so that the post holder no longer has those conflicting duties.  it is no longer appropriate for a government minister to have such unfettered discretion in the appointment of judges.   shadow attorney general dominic grieve criticised the government on its plans to change what he said was an  exceptional institution   providing a  champion of the independence of the judiciary . the government had initially proposed to take this institution and  smash it to pieces   mr grieve said. convention should be  nurtured and celebrated   but the government distrusted and disliked it instead. he warned that unless ministers backed down over the lord chancellor remaining a member of the house of lords  the government would have  great difficulty  in getting the bill through parliament. former cabinet minister douglas hogg  whose father and grandfather served as lord chancellor  said the bill was  largely unnecessary  bureaucratic and expensive . but the tory mp for sleaford and north hykeham admitted the lord chancellor s role and office  cannot be frozen in aspic .
original exorcist to be screened the original version of horror prequel exorcist: the beginning  dropped by producers over claims it was not scary enough  is to have its world premiere.  the film  directed by paul schrader  will be screened on 18 march at the international festival of fantastic film in brussels. the psychological drama stars stellan skarsgard and foreruns the 1973 film. schrader was replaced by director renny harlin who made a new version of the film which debuted in 2004. the prequel project was originally announced in 2001  with actor liam neeson in the lead role and john frankenheimer as director. however frankenheimer pulled out in 2002  a month before he died.  skarsgard then replaced neeson in the role of father merrin  made famous by max von sydow in the 1973 film. principal footage was shot in morocco and rome at a reported cost of $32m. however  in august 2003 it emerged that producers morgan creek were shelving schrader s version of the film  having complained it was not scary enough. as well as replacing schrader with harlin - the director behind die hard 2 and cliffhanger - the producers also changed most of the cast  but swedish star skarsgard stayed in the merrin role. harlin s film  released in the uk in october 2004  received lukewarm reviews but went on to make over $76m (£40.7m) worldwide. the festival screening will be the first time that schrader s film has been seen in public. reports that it will be released either in cinemas or on dvd have yet to be confirmed. other films at the festival in the belgium capital  which runs from 11-26 march  include the us horror hit boogeyman and the forthcoming sequel ring 2  as well as a selection of films adapted from the works of jules verne.
collins to compete in birmingham world and commonwealth 100m champion kim collins will compete in the 60m at the norwich union grand prix in birmingham on 18 february.  the st kitts and nevis star joins british olympic relay gold medallists jason gardener and mark lewis-francis. sydney olympic 100m champion and world indoor record holder maurice greene and athens olympic 100m silver medallist francis obikwelu will also take part. collins ran in birmingham at the 2003 world indoor championships.  i m looking forward to competing against such a strong field   he said.  i got a great reception form the crowd at the nia when i won my 60m world indoor silver medal in 2003 and it will be really exciting to return to this venue.  the world champion says he s in good shape but he isn t underestimating the home competition.  jason gardener and mark lewis-francis are olympic gold medallists now and i m sure they ll be aiming to win in front of their home supporters.  i m looking forward to competing against britain s best sprinters and i m sure the 60 metres will be one of the most exciting races of the evening.  collins was sixth in the olympic final in athens but is hoping for a better result at the world championships in finland this summer.  this will be a big year for me and i plan to defend my 100m world title in helsinki in august. before then i want to perform well over 60m indoors and start my year in winning form.
koubek suspended after drugs test stefan koubek says he has been banned for three months by the international tennis federation (itf) after testing positive for a banned substance.  the world number 60 failed a routine drugs test at this year s french open but now plans to lodge an appeal. koubek believes an injection given to him by an austrian doctor to treat a wrist injury is to blame for producing traces of the substance in his system.  i have acted correctly   the 27-year-old austrian said in a statement. koubek  who defeated britain s greg rusedski in the decisive rubber of the davis cup in september  is now set to miss the start of the season. he said   a three-month ban would mean that i not only will miss the australian open  but also the davis cup in australia.
google launches tv search service the net search giant google has launched a search service that lets people look for tv programmes.  the service  google video beta  searches closed caption information that comes with programmes. it only searches us channel content currently. results list programmes with still images and text from the point where the search phrase was spoken. it should expand over time to include content from more channels  said a google spokesperson. the first version of the service is part of google s expanding efforts to be a ubiquitous search engine for people to find what they want on the web and beyond.  we think tv is a big part of people s lives   said jonathan rosenberg  google s vice president of product management.  ultimately  we would like to have all tv programming indexed.   google video has been indexing us-based programmes from pbs  the nba  fox news  and c-span since december. but there were few clues from google about when more global broadcasters would be included.  over time  we plan to increase the number of television channels and video content available via google video but don t have more product details to share with you today   a google spokesperson told the bbc news website.  the results thrown up by the search will also include programme and episode information like channel  date and time. it also lets people find the next time and channel where a programme will aired locally using a us zip code search function. rival search engine yahoo has been developing a similar type of video search for webcasts and tv clips which it promotes from its homepage. it offers direct links to websites with movies or other clips relevant to the search query  but does not pinpoint when the search query occurred. a spokeswoman told the financial times on monday that yahoo was adding captioning for bloomberg  bbc and bskyb broadcasts. a smaller service  blinkx.tv  was launched last month. it searches for and links to tv news  film trailers  and other video and audio clips.
applegate s charity show closes us musical sweet charity has cancelled its run on broadway after poor ticket sales for its early shows.  star christina applegate had to pull out of pre-broadway performances earlier this month with a broken foot. producer barry weissler said he was  deeply proud  of the show  but said the decision to close it was  painful but fiscally responsible . applegate  who starred in tv comedy married with children  had been hoping to make her broadway debut in the show. the 33-year-old injured herself while performing in chicago  and had been hoping to recover in time for its official new york opening on 21 april. she had received mixed reviews for performances in minneapolis and chicago. previews of the $7.5m (£4m) show were due to begin on 4 april. sweet charity tells the story of charity hope valentine  a dancer who always falls in love with the wrong man. it was first performed on broadway in 1966 with gwen verdon in the title role  while shirley maclaine starred in the 1969 film version.
jowell rejects  las vegas  jibe the secretary of state for culture  media and sport  tessa jowell  has hit out at critics of the gambling bill.  she told the guardian newspaper there would be no  las vegas-style  super-casinos  as rumoured in the press. meanwhile labour backbencher stephen pound labelled casino-related regeneration schemes  a pile of pants . the mp for ealing north claimed the legislation would encourage a mafia-like culture of vice and corruption  in an interview on bbc radio 4.  you look at some of the people who are involved...they aren t in there to regenerate blackpool. they are in it to fill their boots   mr pound told the today programme.  i just really think that we have made a terrible mistake here. and over all of it hangs the shadow of the men in the chalk-stripe suits with names that rhyme with spaghetti   he said.  ms jowell complained of the  scale of misrepresentation  in the media over the bill in her interview with the newspaper  her first since the bill was launched. the culture secretary said a four year consultation period had produced a consensus on the need to  protect children and the vulnerable  in a swiftly changing sector. ms jowell insisted:  we have a good track record for extracting planning gain in this country  for instance in social housing.  and continued:  we can be proud to have one of the lowest rates of problem gambling in the world. i intend to keep it that way.  ms jowell will set out her position when the bill is debated in the commons on monday. in prime minister s questions last week tony blair assured parliament that 90% of the bill was about tightening up the regulation of the gambling industry.
call to save manufacturing jobs the trades union congress (tuc) is calling on the government to stem job losses in manufacturing firms by reviewing the help it gives companies.  the tuc said in its submission before the budget that action is needed because of 105 000 jobs lost from the sector over the last year. it calls for better pensions  child care provision and decent wages. the 36-page submission also urges the government to examine support other european countries provide to industry. tuc general secretary brendan barber called for  a commitment to policies that will make a real difference to the lives of working people.    greater investment in childcare strategies and the people delivering that childcare will increases the options available to working parents   he said.  a commitment to our public services and manufacturing sector ensures that we can continue to compete on a global level and deliver the frontline services that this country needs.  he also called for  practical measures  to help pensioners  especially women who he said  are most likely to retire in poverty . the submission also calls for decent wages and training for people working in the manufacturing sector.
nintendo ds aims to touch gamers the mobile gaming industry is set to explode in 2005 with a number of high-profile devices offering a range of gaming and other features such as movie and music playback. market leader nintendo  however  is releasing a handheld console that it says will revolutionise the way games are played.  the first striking thing about the ds is how retro it looks. far from looking like a mould-breaking handheld  it looks more like nintendo dug out a mould from a 1980s handheld prototype. the lightweight clam shell device opens up to reveal two screens  and when switched on it instantly reveals its pedigree. both screens are crisp and clear while the bottom of the two is touch sensitive. nintendo has given developers free rein to utilise the dual screens and ability to control the action by simply touching the screen.  the japanese gaming giant hopes the ds will maintain the firm s pre-eminence in an increasingly-competitive mobile gaming market.  nintendo first launched its gameboy console in 1989 and has dominated the market ever since. but its lead can no longer be taken for granted. sony will enter the market later this year with its playstation portable  while start-up companies gizmondo and tapwave zodiac are also offering hybrid devices.  we believe the ds will appeal to all ages  both genders and gamers of any skill   said david yarnton  nintendo europe s general manager said at the recent press launch for the handheld. with its two screens  wireless connectivity and backwards compatibility with the gameboy advance  the ds certainly has a number of unique selling points. it went on sale in the us in mid-november priced $150 and nintendo says sales have exceeded expectations  without giving detailed figures. japan and europe will have to wait until the first quarter of 2005 to get the device. with more than two million pre-orders for the device in japan  nintendo is confident it will keep its number one spot. but will the device prove to be as revolutionary as claimed  the game ships with a demo of metroid hunters - a 3d action title which can be played alone or with a group of friends using the machine s wireless capabilities. it certainly looks impressive on the small machine and plays smoothly even with a group of people.  the game can be controlled by using the supplied stylus to aim. the top screen is used to navigate the action while the bottom screen offers a top-down map and the ability to switch weapons. it is certainly a unique control method and while it makes aiming more controlled it can be a little disorientating. super mario 64 ds is a faithful re-creation of the nintendo 64 classic with a host of new mini-games and new levels. the game looks stunning on the portable machine and the sound too is impressive for such a small machine. one thing is for certain. hardened gamers will have to learn to adapt to a new way of playing while it could prove to be an accessible way in to gaming for novices  ultimately the success or failure of the device lies in the hands of developers. if they manage to create titles which use the nintendo ds s key features then a whole new market of gamers could open up. the fear is that the touch screen and voice recognition are treated as little more than gimmicks.
johnny cash manager holiff dies the former manager of johnny cash  saul israel holiff  has died at the age of 79  his family said.  mr holiff  who was also a concert promoter  managed cash s career between 1960 and 1973  quitting when he thought the singer s career had peaked.  i was guilty for underestimating him repeatedly   he once said. the canadian music manager  who also managed tommy hunter and the statler brothers  had been in declining health  according to his family. an entrepreneur from an early age  mr holiff served as a rear air gunner in the royal canadian air force during world war ii  afterwards setting up a drive-in restaurant. he briefly dabbled in acting  before setting up offices in nashville and los angeles for his concert and artist promotion business. in 1970  rpm weekly magazine presented holiff with a special award as the canadian music industry s man of the year. mr holiff retired when he was in his late 40s  returning to education as a mature student at the university of victoria  where he graduated with a degree in history. he passed away on 17 march. according to his wishes  there will be no funeral service.
attack prompts bush site block the official re-election site of president george w bush is blocking visits from overseas users for  security reasons .  the blocking began early on monday so those outside the us and trying to view the site got a message saying they are not authorised to view it. but keen net users have shown that the policy is not being very effective. many have found that the site can still be viewed by overseas browsers via several alternative net addresses.  the policy of trying to stop overseas visitors viewing the site is thought to have been adopted in response to an attack on the georgewbush.com website. scott stanzel  a spokesman for the bush-cheney campaign said:  the measure was taken for security reasons.  he declined to elaborate any further on the blocking policy. the barring of non-us visitors has led to the campaign being inundated with calls and forced it to make a statement about why the blocking was taking place. in early october a so-called  denial of service  attack was mounted on the site that bombarded it with data from thousands of pcs. the attack made the site unusable for about five hours.  about the same time the web team of the bush-cheney campaign started using the services of a company called akamai that helps websites deal with the ebbs and flows of visitor traffic. akamai uses a web-based tool called edgescape that lets its customers work out where visitors are based. typically this tool is used to ensure that webpages  video and images load quickly but it can also be used to block traffic. geographic blocking works because the numerical addresses that the net uses to organise itself are handed out on a regional basis. readers of the boingboing weblog have found that viewers can still get at the site by using alternative forms of the george w bush domain name. ironically one of the working alternatives is for a supposedly more secure version of the site. there are now at least three working alternative domains for the bush-cheney campaign that let web users outside the us visit the site. the site can also be seen using anonymous proxy services that are based in the us. some web users in canada also report that they can browse the site.  the international exclusion zone around georgewbush.com was spotted by net monitoring firm netcraft which keeps an eye on traffic patterns across many different sites.  netcraft said that since the early hours of 25 october attempts to view the site through its monitoring stations in london  amsterdam and sydney have failed. by contrast netcraft s four monitoring stations in the us managed to view the site with no problems. data gathered by netcraft on the pattern of traffic to the site shows that the blocking is not the result of another denial of service attack. mike prettejohn  netcraft president  speculated that the blocking decision might have been taken to cut costs  and traffic  in the run-up to the election on 2 november. he said the site may see no reason to distribute content to people who will not be voting next week. managing traffic could also be a good way to ensure that the site stays working in the closing days of the election campaign. however  simply blocking non-us visitors also means that americans overseas are barred too. most american soldiers stationed overseas will be able to see the site as they use the us military s own portion of the net. akamai declined to comment  saying it could not talk about customer websites.
holmes starts 2005 with gb events kelly holmes will start 2005 with a series of races in britain.  holmes will make her first track appearance on home soil since winning double olympic gold in january s norwich union international in glasgow. she will also run in the grand prix in birmingham in february and may defend her indoor aaa 800m title in sheffield earlier that month.  i am still competitive and still want to win   she said.  i m an athlete and i can t wait to get back on the track.  she added:  these events are also a great opportunity to thank the british public for the enormous levels of support they have given me from the moment i stepped off that plane from greece.  the glasgow meeting will see holmes compete over 1500m in a five-way match against sweden  france  russia and italy.
gatlin and hayes win owen awards american olympic stars justin gatlin and joanna hayes have been named the winners of the 2004 jesse owens awards  usa track & field s (usatf) top honour.  gatlin  22  won the closest 100m final in games history with a career-best time of 9.85 seconds in athens. he also won bronze in the 200m and silver in the 4x100m relay  becoming the only male athlete to win three athletics medals this summer. hayes  27  set an olympic record of 12.37 in winning the 100m hurdles. established in 1981  the jesse owens awards - named in honour of the late olympic great who won four gold medals at the 1936 berlin games - are presented annually to the outstanding us male and female track and field performers.  the 2004 awards will be presented on 3 december in conjunction with the usatf annual meeting in portland.  it is such a great honour to win the jesse owens award   said gatlin.  it is one of the biggest honours in track and field and it is a great end to a great year.   hayes said:  knowing some of the great people who have won this award before me and knowing what it represents  i feel a sense accomplishment and pride which lets me know that everything that i have worked for is and always will be worth it.
volcano drama erupts on bbc one supervolcano  a docu-drama about a volcanic eruption in yellowstone national park in the us  is among the highlights on the bbc one this winter.  the £178m winter schedule also includes the return of doctor who and a drama about angela cannings  who was wrongly convicted of killing two of her babies. sarah lancashire and timothy spall will star in the real-life drama  cherished. itv also unveiled their festive season on tuesday  which includes stephen fry in a remake of tom brown s schooldays. supervolcano  follows in the footsteps of last year s pompei  which drew 10 million viewers to bbc one in october 2003.  the programme merges science  drama and computer imagery to reveal what could happen if yellowstone - home to the only currently active supervolcano in the world - were to erupt again. bbc two will run a two-part documentary  the science behind supervolcano  in conjunction with the transmission. other educational highlights include a documentary about infamous mongolian warrior genghis khan and grandchild of the holocaust. grandchild of the holocaust  part of the bbc commitment to holocaust memorial day  follows adrian  13  on a journey to uncover the truth about what happened to his grandmother in auschwitz and belsen.  new drama includes archangel  an adaptation of the robert harris best-seller  which stars daniel craig on the trail of stalin s diaries in communist russia. and sarah waters  gets her second adaptation on bbc one with imelda staunton and charles dance lined up to star in fingersmith. the adaptation  about a conman in victorian england  will make an interesting contrast to julie burchill s sugar rush - a lesbian teenage drama part of channel four s winter season. on a lighter note  jessica stevenson will star in new bbc one sitcom  the world according to bex  penned by my family creator fred barron and the two ronnies return for a celebration of their classic comedy series.  fry s portrayal of headmaster dr arnold dominates a muted christmas schedule on itv1  which sees the channel retreat from broadcasting blockbuster movies in favour of extended soap episodes and popular quiz shows.  sir paul mccartney  wife heather mills and manchester united manager sir alex ferguson will join a celebrity edition of who wants to be a millionaire  on christmas day. also on christmas day  john nettles will return in a one-off edition of midsomer murders  while two episodes of the new miss marple drama will air over the festive period. films on itv1 include gus van sant s finding forrester  starring sean connery  and classics such a mary poppins  star wars and the good  the bad and the ugly. in contrast  bbc s christmas season includes terrestrial debuts of the first harry potter film  shrek and steven spielberg s ai  as well as new epipsodes of the vicar of dibley and the final auf wiedersehen  pet.
streets have  album of the year  the streets  aka british rapper and songwriter  mike skinner have topped a poll to find the year s best album.  a grand don t come for free beat keane s hope and fears in second place with franz ferdinand s self-titled album third  in the q magazine poll. skinner uses blunt beats under streetwise lyrics about such things as falling in love and drink and drugs. q magazine said:  a grand don t come for free captured the country s mood in a way no one could have predicted.  a grand don t come for free is the second album from the streets. it followed original pirate material. q magazine also had praise for the runners-up in the poll. keane s hopes and fears  was described as a  revelatory debut  which showed  they had songwriting flair to spare . it also said franz ferdinand s album sounded  natural  unforced (and) under-produced . rock band u2 s latest album how to dismantle an atomic bomb came fourth while razorlight s up all night was in fifth place. others notables on the list included dizzee rascal in at number 12 and the zutons at 20. estelle came in at 39  joss stone was 40th and jamelia took the 44th place.
prime minister s questions so who  if anyone  is playing politics with the security of the nation   michael howard has no doubt it is the prime minister who  he claims  is  ramming  through parliament the controversial new anti-terror measures without proper debate. he didn t say so  but the tories believe the prime minister is playing the fear card on this one so he can look tough in the run up to the general election and they believe tony blair is using the issue to suggest the tories are soft on terrorism. why on earth will the prime minister not simply take up the tories  offer to extend the existing powers temporarily to allow proper parliamentary debate of the laws  he demanded. the prime minister claims this is the clearest indication that it is the tories who are playing politics with the issue by attempting to score cheap political points in parliament. is not the opposition against to the proposed laws  in principle   in which case delaying a decision for further debate would be pointless   what this is really about  believes mr blair  is the tories spotting an opportunity to embarrass  maybe even defeat the government. and that is more important to them than national security. liberal democrat leader charles kennedy avoided suggesting anyone was playing politics with the issue. he preferred to state that  as with other issues like id cards  the government s immediate instinct was authoritarian.  as is his habit nowadays  the prime minister was less rough with mr kennedy than he had been with mr howard - he prefers a more exasperated tone suggesting he believes the lib dems have  once again  just missed the point. apart from all that  it was electioneering as usual. the very first question to the prime minister from derby north s bob laxton asked him  in effect  if he would carry on the excellent policy of pouring more resources into schools. later birmingham s sion simon even went so far as to suggest the tories were such a shower that we should have the general election now. the prime minister almost blushed. this was not the appropriate place to announce election day  he stammered. but can anyone be in any doubt that that announcement is just days away - an announcement coming in the week beginning 4 april for an election on 5 may is where the big money is in the commons. and perhaps that simple fact alone means everyone is seen to be playing politics with just about everything at the moment.
bbc  should allow more scrutiny  mps have urged the bbc to give watchdogs more freedom to scrutinise how £2bn in licence fee money is spent.  the public accounts committee called for the national audit office to be given a  free hand  to investigate how the bbc offers value for money. although six areas are to be opened up to scrutiny the audit office should have more power to choose what it investigated  the mps said. the call was made in a report into the bbc s freeview digital service.  our aim is not to rewrite the storyline of eastenders but simply to ensure that the bbc is as accountable to parliament as any other organisation spending public money   said the committee chairman  mp edward leigh.  the bbc s spending is not subject to the full independent scrutiny  and accountability to parliament.  parliament requires television owners to pay a licence fee and expects the comptroller and auditor general  on behalf of parliament  to be able to scrutinise how that money  over £2 billion a year  is used.   a bbc spokeswoman said:  we share the committee s interest in ensuring the public money we receive is spent well. though in its infancy  we think the arrangements with the nao are working well and should be given time to mature.  the report said the freeview digital service has had an  impressive  take up since its launch but the bbc must still dispel confusion about the service. the committee found the bbc had succeeded in ensuring subscription-free access to digital channels following the collapse of itv digital in 2002. but the fact that one in four homes could not access freeview remained a problem.  the report said that while gaps in the coverage were largely due to landscape issues  there was need for detailed explanations on the freeview website and on promotional literature as to why it was not available in specific areas. the government has proposed switch off of the analogue television signal  with 2012 the most recently proposed date. the bbc launched freeview in 2002 as an alternative to satellite subscription services such as sky  to allow its digital channels such as bbc three and news 24 to be seen. there have been an estimated five million freeview set-top boxes sold since the launch and prices have fallen considerably. the corporation plans to spend up to £138m on freeview before 2014 to ensure people can receive the service throughout the uk  and are aware of it.
new media battle for bafta awards the bbc leads the nominations for the bafta interactive awards  including one for the radio times website and one for sport interactive s euro 2004 coverage.  the awards  which were started in 1997  recognise the best websites  digital tv shows and cd roms. other nominees include the guardian news website  the national theatre  mtv  the science museum and the london stock exchange. the winners from 12 different categories are crowned on 2 march 2005. there were nearly 400 entries this year - a third more than last year. the bbc has 16 nominations while the guardian has three nominations.   this year s nominees are a testament to the creative and innovative work going on within the industry   said grant dean  chair of the interactive committee. categories include interactive tv  film  digital tv  mobile phones and music. shaun of the dead  oasis  definitely maybe  really bend it like beckham  the chaplin collection and the day today will battle it out in the dvd category.  itv s great british spelling test takes on the bbc s olympics and spooks interactive for the interactive tv award. and the guardian takes three of a possible five nominations in the news and sport category for its website coverage of euro 2004  the tour de france and the us elections. the bbc s ican site is up for the technical and social innovation award alongside the likes of nottingham university s uncle roy all around you. in 2002  the british academy of film and television decided to split the awards into separate games and interactive ceremonies  to fully cover the range of innovation outside the gaming industry.
few ready  for information act thousands of public bodies are ill-prepared for the freedom of information act  due to come into force next month  because of government failures  say mps.  from next month anyone will have the power to demand information from a range of public bodies - from whitehall departments to doctors  surgeries. but an all-party committee said it was  not confident  many would be ready. it blamed the department for constitutional affairs for a  lack of consistent leadership .  the act comes into effect in england  wales and northern ireland  on 1 january while similar measures are being brought in at the same time in scotland. it provides the public with a right of access to information held by about 100 000 public bodies  subject to various exemptions.  but the government department responsible for implementing the change suffered from an  unusually high turnover  of staff within the department  which had  seriously interfered  with its work  said the constitutional affairs select committee. it said  despite four years of preparations  some local authorities and parts of the health sector were still not ready. the dca had  failed  to provide early guidance on technical matters and shown a  lack of consistent leadership   the mps found. committee chairman alan beith said:  the dca has had four years to prepare for freedom of information  but with less than a month to go it appears that some bodies may not be well enough prepared.  our report shows that in the past support and guidance from the dca  which has overall responsibility for guiding the public sector through the process of implementation for the freedom of information regime  has been lacking.  a spokesman for the dca said:  the dca has provided - and will continue to provide - strong  clear leadership.  it has delivered a simple  liberal fees regime  guidance on the act which has been widely praised  and expert networks of staff working on freedom of information implementation.
us tv host clark suffers stroke veteran us television host dick clark is in hospital in los angeles after suffering a mild stroke.  the 75-year-old presented long-running show american bandstand from 1956-87 and has since hosted game shows and produced award ceremonies. clark is scheduled to welcome in the new year on the abc network  a job he has done for 33 years. the presenter said that he is  hopeful  of getting better in time to lead the festivities in new york s times square. clark s publicist paul shefrin said the television host was  recovering  and there was no cause for alarm. clark  who produces the golden globe and american music awards  disclosed last year that he was suffering from diabetes.  his popular music show american bandstand was first broadcast in 1952  and attracted an audience of 20 million people after it was picked up by abc in 1957. the long-running weekly series  which featured guests including elvis presley  buddy holly and aretha frankin  came to an end in 1989. clark was inducted into the rock and roll hall of fame in 1993 for his contribution to the music industry. he has also been responsible for television series such as tv bloopers  celebrity boxing and drama american dreams. clark is also expected to act as executive producer for the upcoming golden globe awards ceremony  which is taking place on 16 january.
bank voted 8-1 for no rate change the decision to keep interest rates on hold at 4.75% earlier this month was passed 8-1 by the bank of england s rate-setting body  minutes have shown.  one member of the bank s monetary policy committee (mpc) - paul tucker - voted to raise rates to 5%. the news surprised some analysts who had expected the latest minutes to show another unanimous decision. worries over growth rates and consumer spending were behind the decision to freeze rates  the minutes showed. the bank s latest inflation report  released last week  had noted that the main reason inflation might fall was weaker consumer spending.  however  mpc member paul tucker voted for a quarter point rise in interest rates to 5%. he argued that economic growth was picking up  and that the equity  credit and housing markets had been stronger than expected.  the bank s minutes said that risks to the inflation forecast were  sufficiently to the downside  to keep rates on hold at its latest meeting. however  the minutes added:  some members noted that an increase might be warranted in due course if the economy evolved in line with the central projection . ross walker  uk economist at royal bank of scotland  said he was surprised that a dissenting vote had been made so soon. he said the minutes appeared to be  trying to get the market to focus on the possibility of a rise in rates .  if the economy pans out as they expect then they are probably going to have to hike rates.  however  he added  any rate increase is not likely to happen until later this year  with mpc members likely to look for a more sustainable pick up in consumer spending before acting.
retail sales show festive fervour uk retail sales were better than expected in november as christmas shoppers began their seasonal flock to the high street  figures show.  the office for national statistics (ons) said retail sales rose 0.6% on the month and 6.1% on the year. but the figures  along with this week s inflation report  could trigger another interest rate rise in the new year. however  recent data from the british retail consortium showed a 0.2% slip in high street sales during november.  the ons data confounded analyst expectations. many had expected sales to fall slightly in november as shoppers put off buying christmas presents until december. however  retailers  attempts to draw in the crowds may be behind november s unexpected rise in sales  they say. aggressive tactics  such as one-day discount sales adopted by stores such as marks & spencer  appear to have paid off.  price discounting has certainly accounted for much of this because the value of retail sales hasn t grown as much as volumes   said investec economist david page. the figures sparked a rally for sterling as the data supported the view that it is too early to assume that base rates have peaked.
blair prepares to name poll date tony blair is likely to name 5 may as election day when parliament returns from its easter break  the bbc s political editor has learned.  andrew marr says mr blair will ask the queen on 4 or 5 april to dissolve parliament at the end of that week. mr blair has so far resisted calls for him to name the day but all parties have stepped up campaigning recently. downing street would not be drawn on the claim  saying election timing was a matter for the prime minister.  a number 10 spokeswoman would only say:  he will announce an election when he wants to announce an election.  the move will signal a frantic week at westminster as the government is likely to try to get key legislation through parliament. the government needs its finance bill  covering the budget plans  to be passed before the commons closes for business at the end of the session on 7 april.  but it will also seek to push through its serious and organised crime bill and id cards bill. mr marr said on wednesday s today programme:  there s almost nobody at a senior level inside the government or in parliament itself who doesn t expect the election to be called on 4 or 5 april.  as soon as the commons is back after the short easter recess  tony blair whips up to the palace  asks the queen to dissolve parliament ... and we re going.  the labour government officially has until june 2006 to hold general election  but in recent years governments have favoured four-year terms.
ferguson puts faith in youngsters manchester united manager sir alex ferguson said he has no regrets after his second-string side lost 3-0 away at fenerbahce in the champions league.  ferguson said:  the good thing about being manager is that you are in control of which team to pick.  i care about united  that s important  so while i am disappointed at the result i am not at the team i selected.  this game was important for the young lads. they will remember it and next time they come they will be better.  ferguson admitted his side were well-beaten by the turks  a result which meant they finished second in group d behind lyon. he added:  they ll know not to play like that again. we showed a lack of strength. but i have no complaints about the scoreline.  in the second half we had some good moments in attack. and in that situation  you have to take one chance.  but we didn t do that  so the game just petered out for us.  i didn t think it made much difference whether we won the group or finished second and i still don t.  we could get inter  ac milan and juventus but bayern  barcelona and real madrid were among the runners-up. all we can do is let fate decide how it works out.
profile: gordon brown the ultimate prize of 10 downing street may continue to elude him but  as he prepares to deliver a record-breaking ninth budget  gordon brown can at least console himself with the thought that he is the longest serving chancellor of modern times.  he reached that milestone last june  when he overtook david lloyd george  who served for seven years and 43 days between 1908 and 1915. how much longer mr brown will continue in the job is not clear (he once said there are two types of chancellor:  those who fail and those who get out in time. ) there are rumours he will be moved to the foreign office if labour wins the general election. but  for now  mr brown dominates the domestic political scene like few chancellors - or politicians - before him.  gordon brown was born in glasgow on 20 february 1951  the son of a church of scotland minister in the small fife town of kirkcaldy. at 12  he was canvassing for labour and by his 20s he was a leading political activist in scotland. he achieved a first class degree in history from edinburgh university  where he went on to complete a phd. his early career was spent lecturing  working in television and making a name for himself in the scottish labour party.  his first attempt to enter westminster  for edinburgh south in 1979  was thwarted by the present tory spokesman on foreign affairs  michael ancram. but in 1983  he took dunfermline east  a new constituency including rosyth naval base  pit villages and coastal towns.  entering westminster  he came to share an office with the newly elected mp for sedgefield  tony blair. within four years  mr brown had gained his first frontbench post as shadow chief secretary to the treasury. he became shadow chancellor under john smith s leadership in 1992. after the death of leader john smith in 1994 he stood aside  agreeing to give tony blair a clear run at the leadership during a now infamous meal at the granita restaurant in islington.  the other part of the deal  that mr blair will one day stand down in favour of the chancellor  is the stuff of westminster legend. mr blair s supporters say such a deal never existed and endless newspaper columns - and even a television film - have been devoted to the alleged deal. but if his leadership ambitions were at least temporarily thwarted in 1994  mr brown continued his devotion to politics. during the 1997 election campaign  he is said to have worked an average of 18 hours a day  six days a week after running on a treadmill for an hour each morning.  this dedication to his career was underlined by a comment by mr brown s former girlfriend of five years  princess marguerite of romania  the eldest daughter of ex-king michael of romania  who said a relationship with him was  politics  politics  politics .  if that was true then  mr brown  who married pr executive sarah macaulay in 2000  changed his perspective when the couple were hit by tragedy early in 2002. their daughter jennifer died in edinburgh royal infirmary  10 days after being born seven weeks prematurely. a year later  in october 2003  the couple had a son - john - an event which again gave the chancellor an opportunity to show his softer side. a trip to africa earlier this year  to publicise his scheme to cancel the debt of poor nations  also gave the chancellor an opportunity to show his more human side.  the ideological differences between mr brown and mr blair remain relatively modest. the chancellor opposes the further encroachment of the market into the nhs and is seen as being more  old labour  than mr blair in his approach to wealth redistribution. but their shared belief that market economics are compatible with social justice continues to form the ideological heart of the new labour project. yet they are portrayed by the media as being locked in almost permanent conflict  with mr brown supposedly nursing resentment at being betrayed by his younger downing street neighbour over the succession. mr blair  for his part  is said to be frustrated that his public service reforms are being thwarted by a vengeful mr brown  who reportedly delights in keeping the prime minister in the dark over the contents of his budget until the last possible minute. after a recent run of negative headlines  labour mps took the unprecedented step of making a direct appeal to the two men stop bickering  for the good of the party. events like this  and the testimony of former ministerial colleagues  make it impossible to dismiss the brown/blair feud as just journalistic hearsay  cooked up by hacks and camp followers in the hothouse atmosphere of westminster. how much it damages the ability of government to do its job is open to question.  a truce appears to have been called in the run up to the general election after a fresh spat was sparked by blairite alan milburn being brought in over the head of mr brown to run the election campaign. but with the tories having appeared to get the better of the pre-election campaign thus far there are reports that mr brown - using the budget as a springboard - is to revitalise labour s campaign. amid all this it is easy to forget that mr brown remains the man most likely to succeed mr blair as labour leader. there may be no shortage of possible contenders for the crown - including mr milburn - but none can command the sort of support in the parliamentary party and beyond that mr brown can. and mr blair s decision to name his own retirement date has at least given mr brown something to aim for - even if the prime minister s intention to  serve a full third term  if elected  took the shine off the announcement for the chancellor and his supporters.
gm in crunch talks on fiat future fiat will meet car giant general motors (gm) on tuesday in an attempt to reach agreement over the future of the italian firm s loss-making auto group.  fiat claims that gm is legally obliged to buy the 90% of the car unit it does not already own; gm says the contract  signed in 2000  is no longer valid. press reports have speculated that fiat may be willing to accept a cash payment in return for dropping its claim. both companies want to cut costs as the car industry adjusts to waning demand.  the meeting between fiat boss sergio marchionne and gm s rick wagoner is due to take place at 1330 gmt in zurich  according to the reuters news agency.  mr marchionne is confident of his firm s legal position  saying in an interview with the financial times that gm s argument  has no legs . the agreement in question dates back to gm s decision to buy 20% of fiat s auto division in 2000. at the time  it gave the italian firm the right  via a  put option   to sell the remaining stake to gm. in recent weeks  fiat has reiterated its claims that this  put  is still valid and legally binding. however  gm argues that a fiat share sale made last year  which cut gm s holding to 10%  together with asset sales made by fiat have terminated the agreement.  selling the fiat s car-making unit may not prove so simple  analysts say  especially as it is a company that is so closely linked to italy s industrial heritage. political and public pressure may well push the two firms to reach a compromise.  we are not expecting fiat to exercise its put of the auto business against an unwilling gm at this point   brokerage merrill lynch said in a note to investors  adding that any legal battle would be protracted and damaging to the business.  as far as we are aware  the agnelli family  which indirectly controls at least 30% of fiat  has not given a firm public indication that it wants to sell the auto business.  fiat may be willing to cancel the  put  in exchange for money.
lifestyle  governs mobile choice  faster  better or funkier hardware alone is not going to help phone firms sell more handsets  research suggests.  instead  phone firms keen to get more out of their customers should not just be pushing the technology for its own sake. consumers are far more interested in how handsets fit in with their lifestyle than they are in screen size  onboard memory or the chip inside  shows an in-depth study by telecommunications company ericsson.  historically in the industry there has been too much focus on using technology   said dr michael bjorn  senior advisor on mobile media at ericsson s consumer and enterprise lab.  we have to stop saying that these technologies will change their lives   he said.  we should try to speak to consumers in their own language and help them see how it fits in with what they are doing   he told the bbc news website.  for the study  ericsson interviewed 14 000 mobile phone owners on the ways they use their phone.  people s habits remain the same   said dr bjorn.  they just move the activity into the mobile phone as it s a much more convenient way to do it.   one good example of this was diary-writing among younger people  he said. while diaries have always been popular  a mobile phone -- especially one equipped with a camera -- helps them keep it in a different form. youngsters  use of text messages also reflects their desire to chat and keep in contact with friends and again just lets them do it in a slightly changed way. dr bjorn said that although consumers do what they always did but use a phone to do it  the sheer variety of what the new handset technologies make possible does gradually drive new habits and lifestyles. ericsson s research has shown that consumers divide into different  tribes  that use phones in different ways. dr bjorn said groups dubbed  pioneers  and  materialists  were most interested in trying new things and were behind the start of many trends in phone use.  for instance   he said   older people are using sms much more than they did five years ago.  this was because younger users  often the children of ageing mobile owners  encouraged older people to try it so they could keep in touch.  another factor governing the speed of change in mobile phone use was the simple speed with which new devices are bought by pioneers and materialists. only when about 25% of people have handsets with new innovations on them  such as cameras  can consumers stop worrying that if they send a picture message the person at the other end will be able to see it.  once this significant number of users is passed  use of new innovations tends to take off. dr bjorn said that early reports of camera phone usage in japan seemed to imply that the innovation was going to be a flop. however  he said  now 45% of the japanese people ericsson questioned use their camera phone at least once a month. in 2003 the figure was 29%. similarly  across europe the numbers of people taking snaps with cameras is starting to rise. in 2003 only 4% of the people in the uk took a phonecam snap at least once a month. now the figure is 14%. similar rises have been seen in many other european nations. dr bjorn said that people also used their camera phones in very different ways to film and even digital cameras.  usage patterns for digital cameras are almost exactly replacing usage patterns for analogue cameras   he said. digital cameras tend to be used on significant events such as weddings  holidays and birthdays. by contrast  he said  camera phones were being used much more to capture a moment and were being woven into everyday life.
blair  damaged  by blunkett row a majority of voters (68%) believe the prime minister has been damaged by the row over david blunkett s involvement in a visa application  a poll suggests.  but nearly half those surveyed said mr blunkett should return to cabinet if labour won the next election. some 63% of respondents in the sunday times poll thought his former lover - kimberly quinn - acted vindictively and 61% that he had been right to resign. yougov polled a weighted sample of 1 981 voters online on 16-18 december. mr blunkett resigned as home secretary on wednesday after an inquiry uncovered an e-mail showing a visa application by mrs quinn s former nanny had been speeded up. sir alan budd s inquiry also found mr blunkett s account of events had been wrong. almost a quarter (21%) of those polled for the sunday times said he should return to the cabinet straight after the election. one in four said he should be back in the government s top ranks within a year or two while 39% opposed a comeback.  three-quarters said mr blunkett was right to go to court for the right to see mrs quinn s son - whom he says he fathered - and just 14% voiced sympathy for mrs quinn. a total of 53% of those polled said they had sympathy for mr blunkett  with 40% saying they did not. forty-three per cent thought mr blunkett had done a good job as home secretary and 17% disagreed. meantime  32% said mr blair was a good prime minister and 38% disagreed. a majority  52%  said chancellor gordon brown had done a good job and just 16% disagreed.  a second poll for the independent on sunday found that support for all political parties remained largely unchanged after the blunkett controversy. labour lead the conservatives by 39% to 34% with the liberal democrats on 19%. communicateresearch interviewed 401 people before david blunkett s resignation and 601 afterwards. some 82% said mr blunkett had set a good example by wanting to take responsibility for the child he says is his  but 42% backed his legal action compared to 45% who thought it was unbecoming. thirty per cent said the affair showed mr blunkett could not be trusted as a minister while 63%  disagreed.
england claim dubai sevens glory england beat fiji 26-21 in a dramatic final in dubai to win the first irb sevens event of the season.  having beaten australia and south africa to reach the final  england fell behind to an early try against fiji. they then took charge with scores from pat sanderson  kai horstman  mathew tait and rob thirlby  but fiji rallied to force a tense finale. scotland were beaten 33-15 by samoa in the plate semi-final and ireland lost 17-5 to tunisia in the shield final. mike friday s england side matched their opponents for pace  power and skill in the final and led 19-7 at half-time. but neumi nanuku and marika vakacegu touched down for fiji  only for a needless trip by tuidriva bainivalu on geoff appleford to allow england to run down the clock.  to be honest  england have wanted to win in dubai for a very long time now  and the people here have wanted us to win for just as long   said friday.   we didn t want to put pressure on ourselves but we are thankful we have achieved that and brought through some young talent at the same time that can hopefully play for the england  15s  in a few years.  portugal confirmed their impressive progress in sevens rugby by recording a sudden-death win over france in the bowl final. samoa won the plate title by edging out argentina 21-19.
student  fee factor  played down a rise has been recorded in the number of students from south of the border applying to universities in scotland.  however  lifelong learning minister jim wallace said that this would not result in scottish students missing out. applications from england and wales rose by 17% between january 2005 and the previous year  up 23 600 to 27 700. fears had been expressed that a flood of  fee refugees  would try to avoid top-up fees of up to £3 000 a year being introduced in england. in june last year  mr wallace announced proposals to increase tuition fees for english students studying in scotland by £2 000 in an attempt to prevent a cross-border flood  although no figure has yet been agreed. legislation to introduce the top-up fees in england is not due to take effect until autumn 2006 and students who start before then will not have to pay additional fees at all.  the figures were made public on thursday by admissions service ucas. universities scotland  which represents university principals  claimed that an increase in applications did not amount to scottish students being squeezed out. director  david caldwell  said some students could be applying in an attempt to avoid the possible increase in annual fees at english universities  but this was not a major factor. he told bbc radio scotland s good morning scotland programme:  the reason people are opting for scottish universities is that they are perceived as being of very high quality  they offer very attractive courses and scotland is seen as a very attractive place to study.   they know that when they take up their studies in 2006 they will be hit by top-up fees if they are going to a university in england and that may be part of the reason why the numbers coming to scotland are so inflated.  however  it does not mean that we will see thousands of additional students from england studying here.  mr wallace agreed and said the figures had to be looked at in context. he explained that when applications were translated into acceptances  the number was not huge - an additional figure of about 200.  also  the picture was further blurred by the fact that applications from wales  where there are no plans for top-up fees  have also risen  by 19%. mr wallace said:  accepting students from all parts of the world does show the high regard in which scottish higher education is held  not just in britain.  we want to make sure that when students are making their choice  they do so on the nature of the course and not because they are under some sort of financial pressure to go to scotland.  we do not want to have a situation where it becomes impossible for scottish students to get places at scottish universities because we are seen as the cheap option.  very often the quality of the university experience is enhanced by the fact there are students coming from a wide range of backgrounds so it would be wrong to go the other way and start excluding students.
straw praises kashmir moves the uk has welcomed the decision by india and pakistan to open a bus link across the ceasefire line dividing the disputed region of kashmir.  foreign secretary jack straw  touring south east asian countries  praised the  spirit of cooperation  in achieving the breakthrough. media reports in both countries describe the deal as a major step in the ongoing peace process. mr straw said he hoped the agreement would make a difference to kashmiris. the bus service was one of several announcements made after a meeting of foreign ministers of both countries in islamabad on wednesday. kashmiri politicians on both sides of the line of control which divides the region welcomed the move.  in a statement  mr straw said the bus service between srinagar and muzaffarabad  will be able to reunite families that have been divided for decades .  this will make a real difference to the lives of kashmiris on both sides of the line of control   he said.  i warmly applaud the efforts of both india and pakistan to make this happen.  this spirit of cooperation will  i hope  lead to many more measures that will benefit all in the region.   on thursday mr straw was in india visiting sikhism s holiest shrine  the golden temple in amritsar where he tried his hand at making indian bread or roti. he is due to take part in talks with the indian government on friday. a second bus service linking the pakistani city of lahore with amritsar in india was also announced as well as a rail link between rajasthan state and pakistan s sindh province. both sides agreed to begin talks on reducing the risk of nuclear accidents and also said they planned to reopen their respective consulates in karachi and mumbai (bombay). the mountainous region of kashmir has been a flashpoint between the two nuclear powers for more than 50 years.
voters  reject eu by two to one  british voters would reject the european constitution by two to one  according to a poll posing the question the government will put to the country.  the daily telegraph poll suggests that 45% of people would vote against the constitution and 24% in favour. however the yougov poll  which questioned 1 943 british adults online  found 25% did not know how they would vote if forced to decide tomorrow. only 51% of those polled had made up their minds about the constitution. another 7% said they would not vote at all. the poll is believed to be the first to pose the question which the government has chosen for the upcoming referendum  expected in 2006. the constitution will be incorporated into uk law if there is a yes vote.  ballot papers in the poll will ask:  should the united kingdom approve the treaty establishing a constitution for the european union   the government unveiled the question which will be asked earlier in the week.  the treaty was signed by all 25 current eu members in rome last october and is due to come into force in november 2006  providing it is ratified by all member states - several of which will hold a referendum. critics say the constitution is a further step towards a federal europe  but advocates say it ensures effective operation of the enlarged 25-state eu.  if we reject this treaty  britain will be isolated and weak in europe   said foreign secretary jack straw  after the question was unveiled. mr straw  along with the rest of the cabinet  will back a  yes  vote. meanwhile  conservative shadow foreign secretary michael ancram said the referendum question  seems straightforward . but he accused the government of trying to confuse the issue by putting the eu referendum question in the same bill as the ratification of the constitution  when they should be treated as  two separate issues .
protesters plan airport challenge campaigners against the expansion of britain s airports have begun challenging the government s plans in the high court.  baa s expansion of stansted airport in essex by building an extra runway is one of the most fiercely opposed plans. opponents say the £2bn cost of the new runway could not be met unless cash from heathrow and gatwick was used. they said this is illegal under current rules and are trying to block the government from changing legislation. baa are also owners of the airports at heathrow and gatwick. they have said they cannot raise the money needed for the stansted upgrades from current landing charges. baa also says it has attempted to involve communities in any future airport plans.  groups challenging the plans include stop stansted expansion  heathrow anti-noise campaigners hacan clearskies and the london boroughs of hillingdon and wandsworth. their opponents are also likely to complain there was no public consultation before an extra runway was built at luton airport  or when it changed take-off and landing procedures at heathrow. if the group wins  the government s future aviation plans outlined in last year s transport white paper could be left in ruins.  the campaigners will say the government did not adequately consider the building of new airports  such as one planned for the isle of sheppey east of london. lord hanningfield  leader of essex county council  told bbc radio 4 s today programme:  we are going to the high court because we want a judge to rule there should be a proper inquiry.  we want a judge to say there has been inadequate preparation  consultation and thought before the government came out with its green paper.  then there could be a proper debate nationally about where this extra capacity should go.  he added:  politicians should not decide where runways should be.  the stansted expansion  apart from the building of the new runway  would also need to include new terminal buildings to deal with the projected 50m passengers who will use it every year.  the airport is the hub of many of the no-frills airlines operating in the uk. but baa has said it has attempted to involve communities in any future airport plans. at heathrow  gatwick  edinburgh and glasgow airports  baa launched a series of consultations on blight to properties from the proposed expansion in september 2004  which will close next week. baa is also offering to buy noise-hit properties for an index-linked  unblighted price. at heathrow  baa said it was working closely with all interested parties to see how the strict environmental  air quality and noise targets for a third runway can be met. at gatwick  the company has written to homes and business likely to be affected by any extra runway.
argonaut founder rebuilds empire jez san  the man behind the argonaut games group which went into administration a week ago  has bought back most of the company.  the veteran games developer has taken over the cambridge-based just add monsters studios and the london subsidiary morpheme. the argonaut group went into administration due to a severe cash crisis  firing about half of its staff. in august it had warned of annual losses of £6m for the year to 31 july.  jez san is one of the key figures in the uk s games industry. the developer  who received an obe in 2002  was estimated to have been worth more than £200m at the peak of the dotcom boom.  he founded argonaut in 1982 and has been behind titles such as 1993 starfox game. more recently it was behind the harry potter games for the playstation. but  like all software developers  argonaut needed a constant flow of deals with publishers. in august it warned of annual losses of £6m  blaming delays in signing new contracts and tough conditions in the software industry. the group s three subsidiaries were placed in administration a week ago  with mr sans resigning as the company s ceo and some 100 staff being fired. after the latest round of cuts  there were 80 workers at argonaut headquarters in edgware in north london  with 17 at its morpheme offices in kentish town  london  and 22 at the just add monsters base in cambridge. mr san has re-emerged  buying back morpheme and just add monsters.  we are pleased to announce the sale of these two businesses as going concerns   said david rubin of administrators david rubin & partners.  this has saved over 40 jobs as well as the substantial employment claims that would have arisen had the sales not been achieved.  mr rubin said the administrators were in talks over the sale of the argonaut software division in edgware and were hopeful of finding a buyer.  this is a very difficult time for all the employees there  but i salute their commitment to the business while we work towards a solution   he said. some former employees are angry at the way cash crisis was handled. one told bbc news online that the staff who had been fired had been  financially ruined in the space of a day .
train strike grips buenos aires a strike on the buenos aires underground has caused traffic chaos and large queues at bus stops in the argentine capital.  tube workers walked out last week demanding a 53% pay rise and in protest against the installation of automatic ticket machines. metrovias  the private firm which runs the five tube lines in the city  has offered an 8% increase in wages. the firm promised no jobs would be lost as a result of new ticket machines. it said it would put this commitment on paper.  underground staff have warned they will continue with the protests until the management put an acceptable offer on the table. the argentine work ministry has been mediating in the conflict and it could call an  obligatory conciliation   which would force both sides to find a solution and put an end to the conflict. some tube commuters have not hidden their frustration at the ongoing strike and have broken the windows of the underground trains  according to the local press.  we are taken as hostages. i don t know who is right  but the harm ones are us   said accountant jose lopez.
man utd to open books to glazer manchester united s board has agreed to give us tycoon malcolm glazer access to its books.  earlier this month  mr glazer presented the board with detailed proposals on an offer to buy the football club. in a statement  the club said it would allow mr glazer  limited due diligence  to give him the opportunity to take the proposal on to a formal bid. but it said it continued to oppose mr glazer s plans  calling his assumptions  aggressive  and his plan  damaging . many of manchester united s supporters own shares in the club  and the fan-based group shareholders united is strongly opposed to any takeover by mr glazer. about 300 fans protested outside the old trafford ground two days ago.  rival local club manchester city has pleaded with visiting fans not to protest inside its ground when the two teams play a televised match on sunday.  manchester united s response comes as little surprise  as the board made clear.  any board has a responsibility to consider a bona fide offer proposal   the club said in its statement. should it become a firm offer  it should be at a price that  the board is likely to regard as fair  and on terms which  may be deliverable . but it also stressed that it stayed opposed to mr glazer s proposal.  the board continues to believe that mr glazer s business plan assumptions are aggressive   the statement said   and the direct and indirect financial strain on the business could be damaging.  whether or not the bid is attractive in monetary terms  in the case of manchester united many investors hold the stock for sentimental rather than financial reasons. at present  mr glazer and his family hold a 28.1% stake  making them manchester united s second biggest shareholders. they own the successful tampa bay buccaneers american football team based in florida. if the family makes a formal offer  they will need the support of the club s biggest shareholders.  irish horse racing millionaires jp mcmanus and john magnier own 29% of united through their investment vehicle cubic expression  and have yet to express a view on the bid approach.  a group of five mps are calling on the department of trade and industry to block any takeover of the club by the us football magnate on public interest grounds. they have signed a house of commons motion  and tony lloyd  the manchester central mp  whose constituency includes the club s old trafford ground  has pledged to take the matter  to tony blair if necessary . the commons motion says  any takeover designed to transform the club into a private company would be against the interests of those supporters and football . however  the dti has dismissed the proposal. a spokesman said the department did not believe there was a case for changing the enterprise act so that takeovers of football clubs could be looked at on non-competition grounds. mr glazer s offer values the club at £800m ($1.5bn). pitched at 300p per share  it also relies less on debt to finance it than an earlier approach from the us tycoon  which was rejected out of hand. manchester united shares closed at 270.25p on friday  down 3.75p on the day.
telegraph newspapers axe 90 jobs the daily and sunday telegraph newspapers are axing 90 journalist jobs - 17% of their editorial staff.  the telegraph group says the cuts are needed to fund an £150m investment in new printing facilities. journalists at the firm met on friday afternoon to discuss how to react to the surprise announcement. the cuts come against a background of fierce competition for readers and sluggish advertising revenues amid competition from online advertising. the national union of journalists has called on the management to recall the notice of redundancy by midday on monday or face a strike ballot.  pearson s financial times said last week it was offering voluntary redundancy to about 30 reporters.  the national union of journalists said it stood strongly behind the journalists and did not rule out a strike.  managers have torn up agreed procedures and kicked staff in the teeth by sacking people to pay for printing facilities   said jeremy dear  nuj general secretary. nuj official barry fitzpatrick said the company had ignored the 90-day consultation period required for companies planning more than 10 redundancies.  they have shown a complete disregard for the consultative rights of our members   said mr fitzpatrick  who added that the company now planned to observe the consultation procedures. the two telegraph titles currently employ 521 journalists.  some broadsheet newspapers - especially those which have not moved to a tabloid format - have suffered circulation declines  which are hitting revenues. the telegraph has announced no plans to go tabloid although both the independent and the times have seen circulation rise since shrinking in size.  the guardian is hedging its bets  planning a larger tabloid format like those popular in continental europe. the telegraph group was bought by the barclay twins - frederick and david - last year  having previously been owned by lord conrad black s hollinger international. the brothers are currently mulling the sale of another of their businesses  retailer littlewoods.  telegraph executive murdoch maclennan said the two newspapers would add eight colour pages in the coming months.   journalists are the lifeblood of any newspaper  and maintaining the quality of the daily telegraph and the sunday telegraph for our readers is vital   he said.  however  action to improve our production capability and secure our titles against the competition is also vital.  many newspapers are investing in new printing machinery that enables them to print more colour pages  or in some cases  have colour on every page. they are hoping that by boosting colour it will make their publications more attractive to advertisers and readers alike. in recent months news corp s news international unit  which publishes the sun and the news of the world  the guardian media group  trinity mirror and the daily mail & general trust have all announced substantial investments in new printing plants.
iaaf awaits greek pair s response kostas kenteris and katerina thanou are yet to respond to doping charges from the international association of athletics federations (iaaf).  the greek pair were charged after missing a series of routine drugs tests in tel aviv  chicago and athens. they have until midnight on 16 december and an iaaf spokesman said:  we re sure their responses are on their way.  if they do not respond or their explanations are rejected  they will be provisionally banned from competition. they will then face a hearing in front of the greek federation  which will ultimately determine their fate. their former coach christos tzekos has also been charged with distributing banned substances. under iaaf rules  the athletes could receive a maximum one-year suspension. kenteris and thanou already face a criminal trial after being charged with avoiding a drug test on the eve of the athens olympics and then faking a motorcyle crash.  no date for the trial has yet been set and again tzekos is also facing charges. the iaaf issued an official warning to the trio last year after they were discovered training in qatar rather than in crete  where they had said they would be. all athletes must inform their national federations where they are at all times  so they can be available for out-of-competition drugs tests. but kenteris and thanou then went on to skip tests in tel aviv and chicago  when they decided to fly back to greece early. then just before the olympics  the pair dramatically missed another test in athens and withdrew from the games.
liberian economy starts to grow the liberian economy started to grow in 2004  but  sustained and deep reform efforts  are needed to ensure long term growth  the international monetary fund (imf) has said.  an imf mission made the comments in a report published following 10 days of talks with the transition government. the imf said that  according to data provided by the liberians  the country s gdp rose by 2% in 2004  after a 31% decline in 2003. liberia is recovering from a 14-year civil war that came to an end in 2003. the power-sharing national transition government of liberia will remain in place until elections on 11 october  the first presidential and parliamentary ballots since the conflict ended.  the imf said liberia s economy started to grow last year thanks to a  continued strong recovery in rubber production  domestic manufacturing and local services including post-conflict reconstruction . the imf however remains cautious about what it sees as a lack of transparency in government actions. in particular  it pointed to mystery surrounding the sale of iron ore stockpiles and the alleged disappearance of some import and export permits. these matters are now being investigated by the liberian authorities and the imf has called for their findings to be made public. the imf also said it was crucial that the central bank of liberia be strengthened  the national budget be effectively managed and a sound economic basis built to allow the country s large external debt to be addressed.  the imf team stands ready to assist the (liberian) authorities in strengthening the areas mentioned   said the report.  the team agreed with the (liberian) authorities that the period until elections and the inauguration of a new government will pose exceptional challenges to fiscal management  and expresses its willingness to provide...continued support.
wenger rules out new keeper arsenal boss arsene wenger says he has no plans to sign a new goalkeeper during the january transfer window.  wenger has brought in manuel almunia for the last three games for the out-of-form jens lehmann - but the spaniard himself has been prone to mistakes. there have been suggestions that wenger will swoop for a high-quality shot-stopper in the new year. but he told the evening standard:  i don t feel it will be necessary to bring in a new goalkeeper in january.  the gunners manager refused to comment on the difficult start that 27-year-old almunia has made to his career at highbury. and he would not be drawn on whether lehmann would return for the top-of-the table clash with chelsea on sunday.  almunia was at fault for rosenborg s goal in arsenal s 5-1 champions league win on tuesday and had some hairy moments in last week s win over birmingham. but wenger said earlier this week that his indifferent form was down to pressure caused by being under scrutiny from the media.  the debate has gone on too long. everyone has an opinion and i do not have to add to it   wenger added. arsenal have been linked with middlesbrough keeper mark schwarzer  fulham s edwin van der sar and parma s sebastien frey. and wenger has no immediate plans to recall former england under-21 international stuart taylor from his loan spell at leicester.
potter director signs warner deal harry potter director alfonso cuaron has signed a three-year deal with hollywood studio warner brothers  according to variety trade magazine.  the mexican film-maker  who directed harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban  will produce mainstream movies and smaller spanish-language films.  we had a wonderful experience with alfonso on harry potter   warner producer jeff robinov told variety. cuaron s other films include mexican movie y tu mama tambien.  the 2001 rites-of-passage drama about two teenage boys who embark on a relationship with an older woman  brought cuaron international attention - and box office glory.  it also won him and his brother carlos  with whom he co-wrote the screenplay  an oscar nomination for best original screenplay. warner will distribute cuaron s films in several languages outside the us.  this deal will give us the opportunity to collaborate with alfonso on movies that make the most of his artistry and vision  and continue to offer him the mainstream worldwide audiences that our studio provides so successfully   said mr robinov.  his first film for warner brothers was 1995 s family fantasy movie a little princess. based on the novel by frances hodgson burnett  a little princess tells the story of a young girl who is sent to live in a new york boarding school when her widowed father enlists for war. after the erotic nature of y tu mama tambien  cuaron was a surprise choice to direct the third harry potter film but his dark interpretation was received well by the public and critics alike.
venezuela and china sign oil deal venezuelan president hugo chavez has offered china wide-ranging access to the country s oil reserves.  the offer  made as part of a trade deal between the two countries  will allow china to operate oil fields in venezuela and invest in new refineries. venezuela has also offered to supply 120 000 barrels of fuel oil a month to china. venezuela - the world s fifth largest oil exporter - sells about 60% of its output to the united states. mr chavez s administration  which has a strained relationship with the us  is trying to diversify sales to reduce its dependence on its largest export market.  china s quick-growing economy s need for oil has contributed to record-high oil prices this year  along with political unrest in the middle east and supply bottlenecks. oil prices are finishing the year roughly 30% higher than they were in january 2004.  in 2004  according to forecasts from the ministry of commerce  china s oil imports will be 110m tons  up 21% on the previous year. china has been a net importer of oil since the mid 1990 s with more than a third of the oil and gas it consumes coming from abroad. a lack of sufficient domestic production and the need to lessen its dependence on imports from the middle east has meant that china is looking to invest in other potential markets such as latin america. mr chavez  who is visiting china  said his country would put its many of its oil facilities at the disposal of china. chinese firms would be allowed to operate 15 mature oil fields in the east of venezuela  which could produce more than one billion barrels  he confirmed. the two countries will also continue a joint venture agreement to produce stocks of the boiler fuel orimulsion. mr chavez has also invited chinese firms to bid for gas exploration contracts which his government will offer next year in the western gulf of venezuela. the two countries also signed a number of other agreements covering other industries including mining.
celts savour grand slam prospect the six nations has heralded a new order in northern hemisphere rugby this year and wales and ireland rather than traditional big guns france and england face a potential grand slam play-off in three weeks  time.  but before that game in cardiff  wales must get past scotland at murrayfield  while ireland face the not insignificant task of a home fixture with the mercurial french. no-one knows what mood france will be in at lansdowne road on 12 march - sublime  as in the first half against wales  or ridiculous  like in the same period against england at twickenham. but how the mighty have fallen. england sat on rugby s summit 15 months ago as world champions and 2003 grand slam winners. but they have lost nine of their 14 matches since that heady night in sydney. and they face the ignominy of what could amount to a wooden spoon play-off against italy in a fortnight.  england are enduring their worst run in the championship since captain richard hill was dumped in favour of mike harrison after three straight losses in 1987. coach andy robinson  who took over from the successful sir clive woodward in september  has lost a phalanx of world cup stars. and he is enduring the toughest of teething problems in bedding down his own style with a new team. the same year that england ruled the roost  a woeful wales lost all five matches in the six nations. and they won only two games  against scotland and italy  in 2004. wales  most recent championship title was in 1994  and their last grand slam success came in 1978 in the era of gareth edwards  phil bennett  jpr williams et al.  but welsh rugby fans remain on permanent tenterhooks for the blossoming of a new golden age. after several false dawns  coach mike ruddock may have come up with the team and philosophy to match expectations. the fresh verve is inspired by skipper gareth thomas  now out with a broken thumb  accurate kicking from either fly-half stephen jones or centre gavin henson  a rampant martyn williams leading the way up front  and exciting runners in the guise of henson and shane williams. ireland coach eddie o sullivan and captain brian o driscoll have got their side buzzing too  and they are close to shedding the  nearly-men  tag that has dogged them for the past few years. the men from the emerald isle have been six nations runners-up for the past two years  to france and england.  but they have not won the title since 1985 and last clinched a grand slam in 1948. as for scotland  they have struggled this decade and the 2004 wooden spoon  winners  have not been in the top two since they lifted the title in 1999. italy continue the elusive search for their first six nations away win  and can still only account for the scalps of scotland (twice) and wales since joining the elite in 2000. coach john kirwan is a passionate and dedicated believer in the azzurri  but is lacking in raw materials. and so to france. brilliant one minute  inept the next. but the reigning champions could quite easily turn on the style in dublin and end up winning the title through the back door. ireland  though  have won three times in their last five meetings. welsh romantics would probably prefer a glorious victory in the celtic showdown to crown their grand slam. but given that ireland have beaten wales in four of their last five meetings  the welsh legions are likely to be behind les bleus on 12 march.
uk plan to deport terror suspects deals are being sought to allow the uk to deport terror suspects to their home countries without risk of them being tortured or sentenced to death.  home secretary charles clarke told the times he hoped agreement with several countries could be reached. the move follows a law lords judgement that the detention of 12 men at belmarsh prison  london  and woodhill  milton keynes  was unlawful. the 12 affected by the ruling are from algeria  tunisia  egypt and jordan. the government was told that using anti-terror legislation brought in after 11 september to hold the men indefinitely without charge broke human rights laws.  mr clarke told the times:  i think we should be prosecuting much more energetically our ability to deport the individuals concerned to the countries from which they come.  he said it was a route that was being pursued in collaboration with foreign secretary jack straw  in a very positive way . mr clarke said that he was seeking  memorandums of understanding  between overseas governments and britain to ensure suspects would not be subjected to the death penalty on their return. however  he added:  i do not think the solution to the law lords  judgement for this government is in deportations  but they will help.  there are other strands that we have to do.  but the liberal democrat s shadow home secretary  mark oaten  accused mr clarke of avoiding the main issue with the belmarsh detainees.   the critical issue that the home secretary is dodging at this stage is to deal with the very principle  to deal with how we tackle this problem in the future   he told bbc news.  and i do want him to grasp those issues and that means looking at how we can actually secure convictions in this country allowing  for example  intercept communications  telephone tapping to be included   mr oaten said.  deportation may tackle this initial problem but i want to see a wider debate urgently about how we can actually get trials and convictions in this country.   unless we get that  the liberal democrats will vote against this measure when it comes for renewal in march.   the bbc s home affairs correspondent  daniel sandford  said it appeared mr clarke was putting more emphasis on the possibility of deportation than his predecessor  david blunkett. but he said reaching an understanding with some of the detainees  home countries could be difficult.  some of these people are accused of very  very serious crimes in their home countries so it s not an easy agreement to get and i think for some of these suspects it won t be the solution.  daniel sandford said ministers may try to put forward other solutions - such as allowing more secret evidence to be put into normal criminal trials or developing a more secret trials process - in the next few weeks.  the government may try and deport some of them and then those that are left see if they can work out some way of putting them on trial   he said.
preview: ireland v england (sun) lansdowne road  dublin  sunday  27 february  1500 gmt  bbc1  radio 4 lw and this website  ireland are going for their first grand slam since 1948 after two opening wins  and england represent their sternest test of the championship so far. england were sloppy and leaderless in the defeats against wales and france and another loss would be unthinkable. the pressure is on coach andy robinson and his side have to deliver.  despite england s dramatic dip in form since the world cup final - they have lost eight of their last 13 matches - ireland coach eddie o sullivan says his side should not underestimate the visitors.  had they kicked their points they would have beaten france and that would have created a different landscape for sunday   he said.  this is england we are talking about. they have a depth of talent and a very good record against ireland.  they will target a victory in dublin as the turning point in their six nations.  the differences between the sides is also highlighted in the team selections for the dublin encounter.  ireland  despite having gordon d arcy still out injured  have been boosted by the return of star skipper brian o driscoll who missed the scotland game with a hamstring injury.  the knowledge that the england game was coming up really helped during rehabilitation   he said.  the will to play in this game was enormous. it doesn t get much bigger than england at home.  as well as entering the tournament without players like jonny wilkinson  mike tindall and richard hill  england have now lost two tighthead props in julian white and phil vickery while blind-side flanker lewis moody is a major concern. robinson  who received a lot of flak for the inclusion and then dropping of centre mathew tait  has kept faith with kicking fly-half charlie hodgson despite his horror show at twickenham. if england slump in dublin  it will be their worst run of results in the championship since 1987.  but robinson was bullish during the week about the game  saying that his side  are going there to get in their faces   and has identified the line-out and tackle area as the key to england s chances. and despite the recent results  skipper jason robinson believes there is nothing wrong with the mood in the camp.  there is no lack of confidence in the team   said the sale full-back.  we have had a good week s training and we are all looking forward to the challenge.  i still believe in this team. i know if we get our game right we will win the games.   g murphy; g dempsey  b o driscoll  s horgan  d hickie; r o gara  p stringer; r corrigan  s byrne  j hayes; m o kelly  p o connell; s easterby  j o connor  a foley.  f sheahan  m horan  d o callaghan  e miller  g easterby  d humphreys  k maggs.  j robinson (capt); m cueto  j noon  o barkley  j lewsey; c hodgson  h ellis; g rowntree  s thompson  m stevens; d grewcock  b kay; j worsley  l moody  m corry.  a titterrell  d bell  s borthwick  a hazell  m dawson  a goode  o smith.
scotland 18-10 italy six chris paterson penalties gave scotland victory in a dour but clinical encounter against italy at murrayfield.  coach matt williams  side were outmuscled and outplayed in a tense first half but led 6-3 at the break. paterson slotted four more second-half penalties and scotland were denied a try when wing sean lamont s touchdown was ruled out for a forward pass. a late andrea masi try was small consolation for italy  chasing their first away win in the six nations. scotland came out on top of the early exchanges and took a quick 3-0 lead through the boot of full-back paterson. but the more powerful azzurri pack eventually rumbled into life.  a series of drives into scottish territory set up a penalty attempt  missed by full-back roland de marigny  and a wayward drop-goal effort from luciano orquera. scotland defended the initial thrusts but on 20 minutes italy  after coming up yards short of the line  equalised through a de marigny penalty. italy were offered another penalty when scottish flanker simon taylor was offside but the left-footed de marigny pushed his kick wide. scotland finally made the most of a rare foray into the italian half and snatched three points from paterson when an italian forward handled the ball in a ruck.  as the half wore on  both sides squandered promising spells of momentum with sloppy penalties  and the period fizzled out with scotland numerically  if not psychologically  on top. italy s de marigny narrowly missed a chance to level the scores again shortly after the break but his long-range kick shaved the right upright. and scotland capitalised with a third paterson penalty on 50 minutes. williams  side seemed to have found a spark from somewhere and  after a couple of probing attacks  paterson was able to slot another three points to widen the gap.  with the pendulum of possession swinging towards scotland  lamont thought he had wriggled over in the left corner after 65 minutes but play was recalled for a marginal forward pass from paterson. another paterson penalty on 70 minutes kept the pressure on the wilting visitors. but john kirwan s men had the last laugh when gordon ross  attempted clearance was charged down and masi pounced for the try  converted by de marigny.  : c paterson; s webster  a craig  h southwell  s lamont; d parks  c cusiter; t smith  g bulloch (capt)  g kerr; s grimes  s murray; s taylor  j petrie  a hogg.  r russell  b douglas  n hines  j dunbar  m blair  g ross  b hinshelwood.  r de marigny; mirco bergamasco  c stoica  a masi  l nitoglia; l orquera  a troncon; a lo cicero  f ongaro  m castrogiovanni; s dellape  m bortolami (capt); a persico  d dal maso  s parisse.  g intoppa  s perugini  ca del fava  s orlando  p griffen  r pedrazzi  kp robertson.
how the academy awards flourished the 77th annual academy awards are taking place on 27 february with the stars of the movie-making world once again holding their breath to discover who will be showered with the honours this year. but from humble beginnings  how did the modern day extravaganza become the behemoth it is today   how it all started the first academy awards were handed out in 1929 at a comparatively low-key dinner held at the hollywood roosevelt hotel - just over the road from their modern day home.  just 250 guests attended with ticket prices at $5.  the first film to win was wings  which starred clara bow in the only silent movie to win the big award. for the first 10 years or so  the winners list was handed to the newspapers so they could publish them at 11pm  but in 1940 the winners were published in the los angeles times at 8.45pm meaning guests entering the ceremony knew already knew the results. as a result the sealed envelope system was introduced  leading to the secrecy and suspense-filled night that happens today. when and where the tradition of holding the awards at a banquet continued until 1942 but with increasing interest came a growing guest list and it became impractical to host it as a dinner.  the ceremonies were then transferred to theatres with the famous grauman s chinese theatre the first to host the expanded event. other venues included the dorothy chandler pavilion and the shrine auditorium. they are now held at the kodak theatre  which opened in 2002 just across the road from its original home and holds 6 000 people. until 1954 they were held on a thursday  then swapped around from monday to wednesday before sunday night was settled on  although the month swapped from may to april to march and now its current month of february. the first televised ceremony was in 1953  with bob hope as the mc. who was oscar  there is no solid evidence as to how the trophy became to be known as oscar.  one popular story is that academy librarian margaret herrick said the statue looked like her uncle oscar. a journalist apparently overheard this conversation and used the phrase in an article.  the first time it is thought to have been used in print was when columnist sidney skolsky used it to describe katherine hepburn s first best actress win in 1934. the academy officially adopted the nickname in 1939. the trophy was designed by mgm art director cedric gibbons. since its inception 2 530 oscars have been handed out. in support of the war effort  the academy handed out plaster oscar statuettes during wwii. after the war  winners exchanged the plaster awards for the real thing. fifty-five statues were stolen in en route to the awards in 2000  52 were recovered nine days later. winners were unaffected as a new batch was rushed out. who sits in judgement  the academy was set up in 1927 as a non-profit organisation with 36 members from different film disciplines. douglas fairbanks sr was the first president and oversaw the first awards. there are now 5 700 members of the academy - with membership by invitation only to those who are seen to have achieved distinction in the movies and are therefore seen as fit to judge their peers. some of the criteria for admittance includes: film credits that reflect the high standards of the academy  receipt of an academy award nomination  achievement of unique distinction  earning of special merit  or making an outstanding contribution to film. the stars who left empty-handed while many of the biggest films and movie-makers have been honoured by the academy  there is still surprise at those that did not receive any nominations that later went on to become classics.  among the overlooked films were hobson s choice  dirty harry  the 39 steps  the searchers and king kong. actors that failed to win for their iconic roles included al jolson in the jazz singer (1927)  humphrey bogart in casablanca (1944)  gene kelly in singing in the rain (1952) and henry fonda in 12 angry men (1957). alfred hitchcock also failed to win an award despite five nominations. his enduring influence on the horror genre was finally recognised with an honorary gong in 1968. the show always goes on not even war has halted the glittering hollywood event. there were calls for it to be cancelled in 2003 during the war in iraq  but as it didn t stop during world war ii or the vietnam war.  documentary winner michael moore ensured nobody forgot about the iraq war though and used his acceptance speech to criticise the american invasion. the ceremony was muted with the glitz turned down and many female stars opting for demure dark dresses. the ceremony has been postponed on three occasions. los angeles floods in 1938 saw it put back a week. the death of martin luther king saw it postponed for two days in 1968 as a mark of respect and there was a 24-hour delay following the assassination attempt on president ronald reagan. controversies and other gaffes three people have refused oscars  including actor george c scott who said the whole thing was  demeaning . writer dudley nichols refused his academy award in 1935 for his screenplay for the insider because the writers  guild was striking at the time. marlon brando turned down his best actor oscar for the godfather in 1973 in protest as hollywood s apparent discrimination against native american people. he sent along a woman called sacheen littlefeather to collect his award. she was later revealed to be native american actress maria cruz.  the following year robert opal interrupted proceedings when he streaked  flashing a peace sign as well as everything else. the tv network managed to pan away and avoid too much nudity. opal was murdered in 1979. frank capra was the butt of one major gaffe in 1934 when the host opened out best picture envelope and declared  come on up and get it  frank  to which frank capra bounded up to the stage before realising that he had meant frank lloyd had won for cavalcade.  capra vowed he would never to go the awards again but went the following year to collect his award for it happened one night.
no charges against tv s cosby us comedian bill cosby will not face charges stemming from an allegation of sexual misconduct.  authorities in philadelphia said they found insufficient evidence to support the woman s allegations regarding an alleged incident in january 2004. the woman reported the allegations to canadian authorities last month. cosby s lawyer  walter m phillips jr  said the comedian was pleased with the decision.  he looks forward to moving on with his life   he said. district attorney bruce l castor jr  who was in charge of the case  said that detectives could find no instance  where anyone complained to law enforcement of conduct which would constitute a criminal offence.  he also said that the fact the woman waited a year before coming forward  and she had had further contact with cosby during that time  were also factors in his decision. the unidentified woman s lawyer  dolores m troiani  said her client was likely to sue the comedian.  i think that s the only avenue open to her. she felt  as we did  that it s a very strong case and she was telling the truth.  she also said that the woman supplied further evidence to prosecutors that she believed strengthened her allegations. cosby emerged as one of the first black comics to have mainstream success in the us. he was a successful stand-up before hosting the children s show fat albert and the cosby kids  and starring in the cosby show  one of the biggest sitcoms of the 1980s.
chepkemei hit by big ban kenya s athletics body has suspended two-time london marathon runner-up susan chepkemei from all competition until the end of the year.  athletics kenya (ak) issued the ban after chepkemei failed to turn up for a cross country training camp in embu.  we have banned her from all local and international competitions   said ak chief isaiah kiplagat.  we shall communicate this decision to the iaaf and all meet directors all over the world.  the 29-year-old finished second to paula radcliffe in the 2002 and 2003 london races  and was also edged out in an epic new york marathon contest last year.  but the ban will prevent the two-time world half-marathon silver medallist from challenging radcliffe at this year s london event in april. global sports communications  chepkemei s management company  said she had wanted to run in the world cross country championships in march. but ak maintained it was making an example of chepkemei as a warning to other kenyan athletes.  we are taking this action in order to salvage our pride   said kiplagat.  we have been accused of having no teeth to bite with and that agents are ruling over us.  ka has also threatened three-time women s short-course champion edith masai with a similar ban if reports that she feigned injury to avoid running at the cross country world championships are true. masai missed the national trials in early february  but was included in the provisional team on the proviso that she ran in a regional competition. she failed to run in the event  citing a leg injury.
mobile multimedia slow to catch on there is no doubt that mobile phones sporting cameras and colour screens are hugely popular. consumers swapping old phones for slinkier  dinkier versions are thought to be responsible for a 26% increase in the number of phones sold during the third quarter of 2004  according to analysts gartner more than 167 million handsets were sold between july and september 2004  a period that  according to gartner analyst carolina milanesi is  seldom strong . but although consumers have mobiles that can take and send snaps  sounds and video clips few  so far  are taking the chance to do so.  in fact  the numbers of people not taking and sending pictures  audio and video is growing. figures gathered by continental research shows that 36% of british camera phone users have never sent a multimedia message (mms)  up from 7% in 2003. this is despite the fact that  during the same period  the numbers of camera phones in the uk more than doubled to 7.5 million. getting mobile phone users to send multimedia messages is really important for operators keen to squeeze more cash out of their customers and offset the cost of subsidising the handsets people are buying. the problem they face  said shailendra jain  head of mms firm adamind  is educating people in how to send the multimedia messages using their funky handsets.   also   he said   they have to simplify the interface so its not rocket science in terms of someone understanding it.  research bears out the suspicion that people are not sending multimedia messages because they do not know how to. according to continental research  29% of the people it questioned said they were technophobes that tended to shy away from innovation. only 11% regarded themselves as technically savvy enough to send a picture or video message. the fact that multimedia services are not interoperable across networks and phones only adds to people s reluctance to start sending them  said mr jain.  they ask themselves:  if i m streaming video from one handset to another will it work    he said.  there s a lot of user apprehension about that.   there are other deeper technical reasons why multimedia messages are not being pushed as strongly as they might. andrew bud  executive chairman of messaging firm mblox  said mobile phone operators cap the number of messages that can be circulating at any one time for fear of overwhelming the system.  the rate we can send mms into the mobile network is fairly constant   he said. the reason for this is that there are finite capacities for data traffic on the second generation networks that currently have the most users.  no-one wants to take the risk of swamping these relatively narrow channels so the number of mms messages is capped  said mr bud. this has led to operators finding other technologies  particularly one known as wap-push  to get multimedia to their customers. but when networks do find a good way to get multimedia to their customers  the results can be dramatic. israeli technology firm celltick has found a way to broadcast data across phone networks in a way that does not overwhelm existing bandwidth. one of the first firms to use the celltick service is hutch india  the largest mobile firm in the country. the broadcast system gets multimedia to customers via a rolling menu far faster than would be possible with other systems. while not multimedia messaging  such a system gets people used to seeing their phones as a device that can handle all different types of content. as a result 40% of the subscribers to the hutch alive  which uses celltick s broadcast technology  regularly click for more pictures  sounds and images from the operator.  operators really need to start utilising this tool to reach their customers   said yaron toren  spokesman for celltick. until then  multimedia will be a message that is not getting through.
elton plays paris charity concert sir elton john has performed at a special concert in paris to raise money for the victims of the asian tsunami.  the british singer played to a 2 700-strong audience on sunday at the french capital s bastille opera house. the concert was also part of an attempt to bring a broader range of events to the famous venue. money raised will go to the fondation pour l enfance (foundation for childhood) which aims to rebuild a children s shelter in sri lanka. sir elton played hits from his vast back catalogue to a sell-out crowd which included former french president valery giscard d estaing and his wife anne-aymone. the veteran pop star played piano accompaniment throughout the concert which lasted for three hours without an interval.  he told the crowd:  throughout the years  i ve done a lot of drugs and alcohol. it s true that i was a nightmare  impossible. for the last 14 years i ve been normal. now my drug is called david  - a reference to david furnish  his partner. the crowd  who greeted each song with a standing ovation  also included french singer charles aznavour and british ambassador sir john holmes. sir elton has also teamed up with phil collins to record a version of eric clapton s 1991 hit tears in heaven to raise money for the relief fund. a release date has yet to be set for the recording  which was organised by sharon osbourne.
worldcom director ends evidence the former chief financial officer at us telecoms firm worldcom has finished giving evidence at the trial of his ex-boss bernie ebbers.  scott sullivan admitted to jurors he was willing to commit fraud to meet wall street earnings projections. mr ebbers is on trial for fraud and conspiracy in relation to worldcom s collapse in 2002. he pleads not guilty. mr sullivan has spent two days being cross-examined by lawyers for former worldcom chief executive mr ebbers.  attorney reid weingarten has attempted to portray mr sullivan as a liar and on thursday quizzed him about his decision to commit fraud to meet analysts  profit estimates.  at that point in time   mr sullivan said  referring to the first false entries in late 2000   i knew it was wrong and i knew it was against the law  but i thought we would get through it in the short term.  mr sullivan  42  has already pleaded guilty to fraud and will be sentenced following mr ebbers  trial  where he is appearing as a prosecution witness. mr ebbers  63  has always insisted that he was unaware of any hidden shortfalls in worldcom s finances. the former finance officer said mr ebbers knew about the improper accounting entries that were made between 2000 and 2002 to conceal soaring expenses and inflate revenue.  mr ebbers could face a sentence of 85 years if convicted of all the charges he is facing. worldcom s problems appear to have begun with the collapse of the dotcom boom which cut its business from internet companies. prosecutors allege that the company s top executives responded by orchestrating massive fraud over a two-year period. worldcom emerged from bankruptcy protection in 2004  and is now known as mci. on monday  mci agreed to a buyout by verizon communications in a deal valued at $6.75bn.
newcastle 27-27 gloucester newcastle centre mathew tait answered his critics as he scored one try and made another  but he could not stop gloucester grabbing a draw.  the falcons were 22-6 down at the break before tait  recently axed by england after just one six nations outing  inspired his side to a 27-22 lead. a last-gasp touchdown from luke narraway pulled the visitors level. but gloucester missed out on victory when henry paul fluffed the conversion and seti kiole was denied a late try. newcastle had a couple of chances at the start of the second half with line-outs in the corner. but they failed to make them count until joe shaw found dave walder  who released mark mayerholfer in his own 22.  the former all black broke clear and popped the ball up for tait on halfway. he chipped ahead for michael stephenson to scorch through for the try  which walder converted to give newcastle a lifeline. they grabbed it with both hands  mayerhofler breaking through and tait making a brilliant early run to cut inside and race 30m to score. walder converted to make it 22-20 before he was just wide with a 40m penalty in the 70th minute.  mayerhofler then scythed through the middle for a try after hall charlton popped the ball up  and walder s conversion took newcastle 27-22 ahead. with three minutes of normal time left  narraway was driven over for a try in the corner which levelled the scores at 27-27. henry missed the conversion but gloucester nearly won it when kiole broke through only to be hauled down by charlton and tom may.  walder; may  tait  mayerhofler  stephenson; wilkinson  grindal; isaacson  long  ward; gross  hamilton; mccarthy  harris  dowson.  replacements: peel  wilson  thompson  parling  sititi  charlton  shaw.  goodridge; garvey  simpson-daniel  fanolua  kiole; paul  gomarsall; wood  curnier  powell; eustace  brown; forrester  buxton  balding.  replacements: elloway  sigley  cornwell  narraway  page  davies  mauger.
ex-pm lord callaghan dies aged 92 former labour prime minister lord callaghan has died on the eve of his 93rd birthday.  he passed away at home in east sussex  just 11 days after his wife audrey died aged 91. lord callaghan  who leaves a son and two daughters  was the longest living former british pm in history. he entered downing street in 1976 after the resignation of harold wilson. prime minister tony blair called him a  giant  of the labour movement. he held each of the major offices of chancellor  home secretary  foreign secretary and prime minister during his career and became lord callaghan of cardiff in 1987.  chancellor gordon brown said the former pm would be  mourned throughout the world .  it was a commitment to public service that brought jim callaghan into parliament in 1945  and while jim rose to the top he never forgot his roots.  former cabinet colleague lord hattersley said his first reaction on hearing the news was  immense sadness .   it was not a major surprise - i knew what a blow the death of his wife audrey was a few days ago   he said.  he was a decent kindly man who helped me and my generation of politicians immensely.   the labour party and the country will be poorer without him.  conservative peer lord heseltine said that despite their political differences  he and lord callaghan became friends.  you don t get to the premiership unless you have a streak of determination   he said.  but i saw the other side of jim callaghan  he became a personal friend in a way  and my family and i were very fond of him.  tory leader michael howard said he would be remembered with  affection and respect . liberal democrat leader charles kennedy said:  when i was first elected in 1983 as the youngest mp  he was the  father of the house  and as such took a very keen interest in my early days in parliament.   he was always full of warmth and wisdom.  born in 1912 and educated at portsmouth northern secondary school  lord callaghan became a clerk at the inland revenue. he enlisted in the royal navy in 1942 and rose to the rank of lieutenant. elected for a cardiff constituency at the 1945 general election  he represented cardiff seats for more than 40 years. after serving as a junior minister in the attlee government  he became chancellor of the exchequer when labour returned to power in 1964.  with sterling under pressure  he resisted devaluation for three years  before being forced into it in 1967. his political career was not without controversy. when he refused to support prime minister harold wilson and dame barbara castle over the latter s trade union manifesto  in place of strife  in 1968  he said:  i am not going to resign. they will have to throw me out . when home secretary  he ordered british troops to march into the streets of belfast to protect catholic civilians amid rising violence - a decision that has dominated british politics into the 21st century.  as foreign secretary in the early 1970s  lord callaghan kept an open mind about the uk s entry into the common market  seeing the advantages of the uk s entry. he once travelled to idi amin s uganda in 1975 to plead for the life of a british lecturer  dennis hills  who was under a death sentence for treason.  his political life was often tempered by battles against the hard left of the party. in the autumn of 1978  before the  winter of discontent  when trade unions carried out strikes that brought the country to a standstill  lord callaghan refused to hold an early election which may have delivered a labour victory. as garbage lay uncollected in the streets and hospital staff  council workers and even gravediggers stayed off work  lord callaghan failed to predict the mood of the country. when britain went to the polls in 1979  tory leader margaret thatcher was swept into power in a landslide victory  and lord callaghan resigned as labour leader.
blair dismisses quit claim report tony blair has dismissed reports he told gordon brown he would quit before the next general election.   you don t do deals over jobs like this   the prime minister told bbc one s breakfast with frost programme. according to a new book  brown s britain  mr blair went back on a pledge to make way for mr brown after cabinet allies intervened in june 2004. mr blair said the claims were  reheated from six months ago  and that he was concentrating on running the country. mr blair said:  i ve dealt with this six months ago. i said then you don t do deals over jobs like this - you don t.   what both of us are actually concentrating on are the issues that concern the country.  the book  by sunday telegraph journalist robert peston and serialised in the newspaper  said the pair had  mutual animosity and contempt  for each other.  it claims tony blair felt by november 2003 he had lost voters  trust because of the iraq war and that he was no longer an asset to the labour party. and that at a dinner hosted by deputy prime minister john prescott he told mr brown of his intention to stand down. according to mr peston the prime minister said:  help me to get through the year and i will then stand down.  but he then changed his mind in june 2004  following intervention from allies in the cabinet and the suspicion that the chancellor was deliberately manoeuvring against him  according to the book.  mr peston told bbc news:  my understanding is that they are not nearly as close or as friendly as they once were.  what the book says is there is now a pretty profound mutual mistrust  mutual animosity.  i think in public you see this double-act pretending everything is alright  but in private i don t think the relationship is good because brown  understandably  feels deeply betrayed - particularly over this issue of the leadership.  but  in a wide-ranging bbc interview covering issues such as the asian tsunami disaster  the middle east peace process and northern ireland  mr blair said:  when you get to the top in politics you get this huge swell around you.  all sorts of people make all sorts of claims and counter-claims.  he admitted to a  sense of frustration  about the allegations which he said had been made  countless times .  there has been fresh speculation of a rift recently  following their separate responses to the asian tsunami. these rumours were fuelled by mr blair s decision to hold his monthly media conference at the same time as a long-planned speech by mr brown on uk plans to tackle global poverty with a new  marshall plan  for africa. there was speculation the pair were trying to outdo each other s response to the disaster. but the prime minister said he had discussed these claims with the chancellor and dismissed them as a  load of nonsense . former welfare minister frank field mp said the prime minister should sack mr brown  but did not believe mr blair was strong enough to do so.  tory leader michael howard accused the prime minister and mr brown of  squabbling like schoolboys . he told sky news  sunday with adam boulton:  this is the politics of the playground and britain really does deserve better.  the liberal democrat parliamentary chairman matthew taylor said the personal ambition of mr blair and mr brown was  getting in the way of good government .  either they need to grow up and put their squabbles to one side or they cannot expect the electorate to support a divided government at the next election.  during the interview mr blair also said the former home secretary david blunkett would play a  big role  at the general election.
singer ferguson  facing eviction  three degrees star sheila ferguson is the favourite to be evicted from itv s i m a celebrity... get me out of here on monday.  bookmakers ladbrokes says the singer has even odds of being the first contestant to be voted off the show.  it s going to be close but sheila is favourite as she has shown herself to be a bit of a troublemaker   said ladbrokes  warren lush. comic joe pasquale remains odds on favourite to win the reality show. mr lush added that nancy sorrell s chances of an early departure had increased since the surprise arrival of husband vic reeves in the jungle camp last wednesday. notwithstanding  comedian reeves remains 3/1 favourite to win the show  after pasquale.  huggy bear actor antonio fargas also remains a contender for eviction having  done nothing to live up to the pre-show hype .  there has been a big gamble on natalie [appleton] to go... but bookies fancy the millions at home will keep piling on the misery by putting her through more bushtucker trials   added mr lush. the former all saint star has performed dismally in bushtucker trials which have seen her plunged into glass tanks containing putrid waste and challenged to eat fish eyes. on friday  ladbrokes suspended betting after singer brian harvey quit the show folllowing a blazing row with janet street-porter. harvey  who entered the camp a day later than other contestants after learning that his grandmother had died  reached the end of his tether following days of meagre rations and rows.
mourinho takes swipe at arsenal chelsea boss jose mourinho has attempted to pile the pressure on title rivals arsenal ahead of the gunners facing newcastle on wednesday.  arsenal will play the magpies a day after chelsea beat portsmouth during a busy festive programme. and mourinho said:  they always seem to have two or three days  rest in which to recover. perhaps it s something to do with the television schedule.  all my players are tired  especially john terry.   chelsea boss jose mourinho admitted his side were  lucky  to win at fratton park but is still unhappy with the amount of games in such a short space of time during this time of year. he added:  we have had to play two matches in three days which is foreign to many of my players and  although i understand the traditions of football here at this time of year  it is not good for your health to do it.   you can sit back and smoke cigars  one after another  and it is a good life  but it is not actually good for you.  playing so many games is certainly not healthy  especially for teams who still have european commitment.
rover deal  may cost 2 000 jobs  some 2 000 jobs at mg rover s midlands plant may be cut if investment in the firm by a chinese car maker goes ahead  the financial times has reported.  shanghai automotive industry corp plans to shift production of the rover 25 to china and export it to the uk  sources close to the negotiations tell the ft. but rover told bbc news that reports of job cuts were  speculation . a tie-up  seen as rover s last chance to save its longbridge plant  has been pushed by uk chancellor gordon brown. rover confirmed the tie-up would take place  not very far away from this time .  rover bosses have said they are  confident  the £1bn ($1.9bn) investment deal would be signed in march or early april.  transport & general worker s union general secretary tony woodley repeated his view on friday that all mergers led to some job cuts. he said investment in new models was needed to ensure the future of the birmingham plant.  this is a very crucial and delicate time and our efforts are targeted to securing new models for the company which will mean jobs for our people   he said. saic says none of its money will be paid to the four owners of rover  who have been accused by unions of awarding themselves exorbitant salaries  the ft reports.  saic is extremely concerned to ensure that its money is used to invest in the business rather than be distributed to the shareholders   the newspaper quotes a source close to the chinese firm. meanwhile  according to chinese state press reports  small state-owned carmaker nanjing auto is in negotiations with rover and saic to take a 20% stake in the joint venture. saic was unavailable for comment on the job cuts when contacted by bbc news. rover and saic signed a technology-sharing agreement in august.
turkey-iran mobile deal  at risk  turkey s investment in iran s mobile industry looks set to be scrapped after its biggest mobile firm saw its investment there slashed by mps.  iran s parliament voted by a large majority to cut turkcell s stake in a new mobile network from 70% to 49%. the move  which was justified on national security grounds  follows an earlier vote by mps to give themselves a veto over foreign investments. turkcell said the decision  increases the risks  attached to the project. although the company s statement said it would continue to monitor developments  observers said they thought turkcell was set to pull out of the $3bn deal.  the possibility of carrying out this project is next to zero   said atinc ozkan  analyst at finans investment in istanbul. if turkcell does back out  mtn - the south african firm which lost out in the original tender - may well be back in the running. the company has said it is prepared to accept a minority stake if iran will award it the mobile deal.  turkcell s mobile deal is the second turkish investment in iran to run into trouble. turkish-austrian consortium tav was chosen to build and run tehran s new imam khomeini international airport - but the army closed it just hours after it opened in may 2004. in both cases  the justification has been national security  amid allegations that the turkish firms are too close to israel. the hardline posture taken by parliament  which is dominated by religious conservatives  could yet impact other inward investments.
jones files conte lawsuit marion jones has filed a lawsuit for defamation against balco boss victor conte following his allegations that he gave her performance-enhancing drugs.  the sydney olympic gold medallist says conte damaged her reputation and she is seeking $25m (£13m) in the suit. conte  whose company is at the centre of a doping investigation  made the claims in a us television programme. he and three others were indicted in february by a federal grand jury for a variety of alleged offences. in an email to the associated press on wednesday  conte said:  i stand by everything i said . jones won three gold medals and two bronzes in sydney in 2000. her lawsuit  filed in the us district court in san francisco  said the sprinter had passed a lie detector test and that she  has never taken banned performance-enhancing drugs . conte s statements  the suit added  were  false and malicious . after the abc television program earlier this month  jones  lawyer richard nicholls said:  marion has steadfastly maintained her position throughout: she has never  ever used performance-enhancing drugs.  victor conte is a man facing a 42-count federal indictment  while marion jones is one of america s most decorated female athletes. mr conte s statements have been wildly contradictory.  mr conte chose to make unsubstantiated allegations on television  while marion jones demanded to take and then passed a lie detector examination.   mr conte is simply not credible. we challenge him to submit to the same lie detector procedure that marion jones passed.  the sport s ruling body  the iaaf  is taking a cautious approach to conte s allegations but contacted the us anti-doping agency. communications director nick davies said the iaaf would seek to contact conte  for further information . but davies stressed it would be up to the american authorities to decide whether they will take action against jones in light of conte s television interview and the world governing body would monitor the situation closely.  if it is felt there is case to answer  it would be for its national governing body (usa track and field) to take the appropriate disciplinary action   he added.  the us anti-doping agency has proved itself to be very diligent in its anti-doping war.  and i am sure  like ourselves  they will be watching the television programme with great interest.  jones  who is under investigation for steroid use by the us anti-doping agency  has continually denied ever taking illegal substances since being investigated in the balco scandal  although she praised a zinc supplement conte marketed. jones  who did not win any medals in athens in august  has never failed a drugs test. meanwhile  conte  who has been charged along with three other men of distributing illegal steroids and money laundering  is due to face trial in march.
election  could be terror target  terrorists might try to target the uk in the run-up to the election  london s most senior police officer has said.  sir ian blair said terror groups would remember the effect of the madrid bomb on spain s general election last year. other potential targets were the royal wedding and the uk s presidency of the european union and g8  he said. he refused to say if there was specific information about the risk of a pre-poll attack. no 10 was similarly cautious but said the threat was real.  the comments come after tony blair defended his controversial anti-terror proposals  warning that it would be wrong to wait for an attack before acting. sir ian told a meeting of the metropolitan police authority it would be  unwise  to speculate about whether there was specific information about risks of a pre-election attack. but he said:  terrorists have long memories. they understand what happened in madrid and know what the impact of that was on the spanish electorate.   this year we are responsible for the eu presidency  presidency of the g8  a royal wedding and a general election.  there are obvious and enormous targets which we have to deal with.  sir ian said the debate over anti-terror plans was one for politicians  not the police  who would enforce any new powers.  home secretary charles clarke has also warned that a madrid-style pre-election bombing could happen in the uk too. asked about sir ian s comments  the prime minister s official spokesman said:  we believe the threat is real.  the spokesman declined to comment on whether the security services had received specific intelligence relating to a possible attack during the election campaign. he said no 10 did not disclose any security advice they received. earlier  writing in the daily telegraph  the prime minister conceded that plans to detain suspects under house arrest without trial were  difficult issues for any government . the commons has approved the measures despite considerable opposition  with the government s majority more than halved as 32 labour rebels joined tory and lib dem opposition. but mr blair insisted:  there is no greater civil liberty than to live free from terrorist attack.   tory leader michael howard has accused mr blair of steamrolling the house arrest plans and of  using national security for political point scoring . liberal democrat leader charles kennedy says that the plan is a further example of labour s  authoritarian  response to crises. the prevention of terrorism bill proposes  control orders   which as well as house arrest could impose curfews  tagging or bans on telephone and internet use. they would replace current powers to detain foreign terror suspects without trial  which the law lords have ruled against. but critics are concerned that it would be the home secretary and not judges who decided to impose control orders. the plans face further commons scrutiny on monday before passing to the lords.
wipro beats forecasts once again wipro  india s third-biggest software firm  has reported a 60% rise in profit  topping market expectations.  net income in the last quarter was 4.3bn rupees ($98m; £52m)  against 2.7bn a year earlier. profit had been forecast to be 4.1bn rupees. wipro offers services such as call centres to foreign clients and has worked for more than half of the companies on the fortune 500 list. wipro said demand was strong  allowing it to increase the prices it charged.   on the face of it  the results don t look very exciting   said apurva shah  an analyst at ask-raymond james.  but the guidance is positive and pricing going up is good news.  third-quarter sales rose 34% to 20.9bn rupees. one problem identified by wipro was the high turnover of its staff. it said that 90% of employees at its business process outsourcing operations had had to be replaced.  we have to get that under control   said vice-chairman vivek paul. wipro is majority owned by india s richest man azim premji.
cable offers video-on-demand cable firms ntl and telewest have both launched video-on-demand services as the battle between satellite and cable tv heats up.  movies from sony pictures  walt disney  touchstone  miramax  columbia and buena vista will be among those on offer. the service is similar to sky plus  as users can pause  fast forward and rewind content  but they cannot store programmes on their set top box - yet. it could sound the death knell for some tv channels  telewest predicts.  it allows us to demonstrate a clear competitive advantage over sky for the first time in many years   said telewest chief executive eric tveter.   video-on-demand will offer a deeper range of content than currently exists on tv. there will be less compromising around the tv schedule and some of the less popular channels may go by the wayside   said philip snalune  director of products at telewest. telewest customers in bristol and ntl viewers in glasgow will be the first to test the new service  which sees a raft of movies on offer for 24 hour rental. during the year  the service will be extended to all cable regions. films will range in price from £1 or £2 for archived movies to £3.50 for current releases. new releases initially on offer will include 50 first dates  kill bill: volume 2  gothika and the station agent. in addition  ntl is offering children s programmes  adult content  music video and concerts. telewest will launch similar services later in the year. ntl is also offering viewers the chance to catch up with programmes they have missed. its pick of the week service will offer a selection of bbc programmes from the previous seven days such as eastenders  casualty  top gear and antiques roadshow. the bbc is trialling a similar service  offering broadband users the chance to watch programmes already broadcast on their pc. for telewest it is the beginning of a £20m investment in tv-on-demand which will also see the launch of a personal video recorder (pvr). pvr has been a big success for sky because it gives customers control over programmes. satellite customers without pvr cannot pause  rewind or fast forward their programmes.  with both services on offer from telewest  mr tveter is confident the cable firm can dent not just the viewing figures for terrestrial tv but also gain a huge competitive advantage over sky.   we offer the best of both worlds and most households have an interest in having both video-on-demand and pvr   he said. video rental stores may also have to watch their back.  video-on-demand is better than having a video-store in your living room and is more convenient   he said. ntl said it had not ruled out the possibility of offering a pvr but for the moment is concentrating on video-on-demand.  pvr is a recording mechanism whereas what we are offering is truly on demand   said a spokesman for the company. video-on-demand has the added advantage of not requiring a separate set-top box or extra remote controls  he added. adam thomas  an analyst at research firm informa media believes the time is ripe for video-on-demand to flourish.  while sky will remain the dominant force in uk pay tv for some time to come  ntl and telewest seem well placed to successfully ride this second wave of vod enthusiasm and  if marketed correctly  this could help them eat into sky s lead   he said.
commodore finds new lease of life the once-famous commodore computer brand could be resurrected after being bought by a us-based digital music distributor.  new owner yeahronimo media ventures has not ruled out the possibility of a new breed of commodore computers. it also plans to develop a  worldwide entertainment concept  with the brand  although details are not yet known. the groundbreaking commodore 64 computer elicits fond memories for those who owned one back in the 1980s.  in the chronology of home computing  commodore was one of the pioneers.  the commodore 64  launched in 1982  was one of the first affordable home pcs. it was followed a few years later by the amiga. the commodore 64 sold more than any other single computer system  even to this day. the brand languished somewhat in the 1990s. commodore international filed for bankruptcy in 1994 and was sold to dutch firm tulip computers. in the late 1980s the firm was a great rival to atari  which produced its own range of home computers and is now a brand of video games  formerly known as infogrames.  tulip computers sold several products under the commodore name  including portable usb storage devices and digital music players. it had planned to relaunch the brand  following an upsurge of nostalgia for 1980s-era games. commodore 64 enthusiasts have written emulators for windows pc  apple mac and even pdas so that the original commodore games can be still run. the sale of commodore is expected to be complete in three weeks in a deal worth over £17m.
hague  given up  his pm ambition former conservative leader william hague says he will not stand for the leadership again  having given up his ambition to be prime minister.  mr hague  43  told the daily telegraph he would now find a life dominated by politics too  boring  and unfulfilling. mr hague  who stepped down after his party s 2001 election defeat  does not rule out a return to the front bench. he also told the paper he hopes to remain mp for richmond  north yorks  and start a family with wife ffion. mr hague  who recently had published the biography of william pitt the younger  also said he wanted to continue writing books and speech-writing.  he told the newspaper:  i don t know whether i will ever go back on to the front  but don t rush me.  asked if he would stand for the leadership again  mr hague replied:  no. definitely not.  his determination to stay away from a central role will disappoint some senior conservative members  who say the party needs him. tim collins  the shadow education secretary  said last week it would be a  huge boost  to the party if mr hague returned to the front bench. mr hague became an mp at 27 and leader of the opposition at 36. he said:  i feel fortunate that  by the age of 40  i had crammed in an entire political career.  i had been in the cabinet and been leader of the party  so now i can branch out into other things...it is a very liberating feeling.  mr hague added that he may have misjudged his own ambition to be prime minister.  maybe i wasn t as driven by politics as i thought i was   he said.
ireland 19-13 england ireland consigned england to their third straight six nations defeat with a stirring victory at lansdowne road.  a second-half try from captain brian o driscoll and 14 points from ronan o gara kept ireland on track for their first grand slam since 1948. england scored first through martin corry but had  tries  from mark cueto and josh lewsey disallowed. andy robinson s men have now lost nine of their last 14 matches since the 2003 world cup final. the defeat also heralded england s worst run in the championship since 1987. ireland last won the title  then the five nations  in 1985  but 20 years on they share top spot in the table on maximum points with wales. and eddie o sullivan s side banished the ghosts of 2003 when england were rampant 42-6 victors in claiming the grand slam at lansdowne road. in front of a supercharged home crowd on a dry but blustery day in dublin  ireland tore into the white-shirted visitors from the kick-off and made their intentions clear when o gara landed a fourth-minute drop-goal.  england took their time to settle but their first real venture into ireland s half produced a simple score for corry. the number eight picked up the ball from the back of a ruck and found an absence of green jerseys between himself and the irish line  racing 25 yards to touch down. england fly-half charlie hodgson nailed the conversion from out on the left  but almost immediately o gara  winning his 50th cap  answered with two penalties in quick succession. england were awarded a penalty of their own on the halfway line after 20 minutes  and hodgson  the villain at twickenham  coolly bisected the posts. the first quarter was marked by periods of tactical kicking  but it was ireland who were showing more willingness to spread the ball wide to their eager and inventive backs. a series of probes led by the talismanic o driscoll  back from hamstring injury  resulted in a penalty but ireland chose to kick for touch.  from the line-out  the ball was recycled back to o gara  who stroked his second drop-goal  this time off the right upright. as the interval approached  wing josh lewsey was the catalyst for england s most promising attack. the wasps star raced up his touchline and hodgson s cross-kick put in mark cueto for an apparent score  but the sale wing was ruled to have started in front of the kicker. england began the second half well and had ireland pinned in their own half. but another english indiscretion on a rare irish break-out awarded o gara a kick at goal  which he missed. england s pressure continued  and a wave of attacks saw centre jamie noon dragged down yards from the line before hodgson landed a drop-goal.  the lead was shortlived  however. ireland raced upfield  deft handling from the backs  including a clever dummy from geordan murphy on hodgson  ending with o driscoll going over in the right corner and touching down close to the posts. o gara missed a penalty which would have put ireland nine points clear  and the home crowd breathed a sigh of relief when hodgson s cross-kick was fumbled by lock ben kay near the line. anticipation of a home win sent the noise level sky-high  but o gara missed another chance to seal the game with a wayward drop-goal attempt. inside the last 10 minutes  england poured forward  spurred on by scrum-half matt dawson  who replaced leicester s harry ellis. but despite one near miss with the pack over the line - not checked on the tv replay by referee jonathan kaplan - england were unable to pull off a face-saving win. ireland next face france at lansdowne road in two weeks  time before the potential title decider against wales in cardiff. england are still to meet italy at twickenham  in what is now a wooden spoon decider  and scotland.  g murphy; g dempsey  b o driscoll  s horgan  d hickie; r o gara  p stringer; r corrigan  s byrne  j hayes; m o kelly  p o connell; s easterby  j o connor  a foley.  f sheahan  m horan  d o callaghan  e miller  g easterby  d humphreys  k maggs.  j robinson (capt); m cueto  j noon  o barkley  j lewsey; c hodgson  h ellis; g rowntree  s thompson  m stevens; d grewcock  b kay; j worsley  l moody  m corry.  a titterrell  d bell  s borthwick  a hazell  m dawson  a goode  o smith.
old firm pair handed suspensions celtic s henri camara and nacho novo of rangers have both been suspended for offences missed by the referee in a recent old firm game.  both were given automatic one-match bans and 12 additional disciplinary points for their actions. that means novo will miss a further two games because of his prior record. camara will miss one additional game. novo was found guilty of stamping on celtic s stephen pearson. camara was punished for kicking gregory vignal.  i m extremely disappointed. i don t know if there s a lot to add to that   said rangers manager alex mcleish of novo s punishment.  but what i will say is that i m at a loss as to why that incident should be picked up and highlighted when there were so many other incidents during the game.  both players will miss this weekend s games when celtic host dundee united and rangers visit kilmarnock unless they decide to appeal.  the additional bans come into effect from 28 december meaning camara will also be unavailable for the home game against livingston while novo will miss the meetings with dundee united and dunfermline. an sfa spokesman said:  they have seven days to appeal but with matches coming along at the weekend they would need to do so before friday.  but if they do appeal it won t be heard before this weekend because it takes a bit of time to seat up an appeals tribunal.  meanwhile  bob malcolm and rangers have been informed by letter as to the outcome of the hearing regarding his reaction to rangers being awarded a penalty in the same game. malcolm  a substitute on the day  was taken from the rangers dug-out and spoken to by police about an alleged gesture he made. but the sfa would not detail what  if any  punishment malcolm would receive.  once rangers receive our letter we will be in a position to make a comment on the findings   added the spokesman.
castaignede fires laporte warning former france fly-half thomas castaignede has warned the pressure is mounting on coach bernard laporte following their defeat by wales.  france suffered a shock loss against the welsh at the weekend after looking on course for an easy win. castaignede told bbc sport:  the pressure is big on laporte after a huge loss to new zealand  a slim win over scotland and a miracle against england.  but the french have to get behind him and the team at lansdowne road.  following victories over south africa and australia in november  france were deemed by many to be the world s leading side. but they were then trounced 45-6 by new zealand and only just beat scotland after the scots had a try disallowed in their six nations opener. it then took some woeful spot kicking from charlie hodgson and olly barkley to help them to victory against england at twickenham. &lt;  castaignede said:  you can t say any of those results have eased the pressure on laporte.  had england s kickers not been so bad  the position in the six nations would be very different now.  laporte has been criticised for france s negative tactics in their wins over scotland and england. but his side played a more free-flowing style against wales  making a mockery of the opposition s defence in the first half before suffering a shock turnaround in fortunes after the interval.  all the chat in france has been about how france will play against ireland   said castaignede ahead of the 12 march tie.  everyone wants to see the sort of play we saw against wales. but everyone also wants a win.  castaignede  a veteran of 43 international caps  admitted the french would go in as underdogs against ireland.   going to ireland is never easy but the way they re playing right now  it s harder than ever   said castaignede.  they re very experienced and don t often lose at home. they ve got some great forwards and some electric runners on the break.  despite praising the irish he claimed the welsh had the upper hand in the six nations run-in.  ireland have such a good pack but wales are something else on the break   he added.  at the weekend they were simply awesome. as a frenchman it was disappointing to see  but you had to admire it.  their commitment to every cause can make them win this championship.  the 30-year-old also tipped yann delaigue to start ahead of frederic michalak at number 10 after an impressive display in paris last weekend.  delaigue played really well and admittedly michalak played well too   said castaignede.  i m just glad i m not the one who has to make the decision.
tories unveil quango blitz plans plans to abolish 162 quangos have been unveiled by the conservatives as part of their effort to show how government red tape can be cut.  six government units would also be scrapped under proposals which the tories say would save more than £4.3bn. among the targets are strategic health authorities and the new fair access regulator for universities. tory frontbencher john redwood said britain needed a slimmer government and lower taxes to be competitive.  the plans would abolish regional assemblies and other regional bodies  such as boards tackling industrial development and housing. their powers would be returned to elected local councils or national government. the tories say the strategic health authorities are not needed as it is better that local people  rather than officials  run hospitals and surgeries.  announcing the plans  mr redwood said:  mr blair has forgotten the interests of taxpayers  and has broken the pledges he made.  far from improving public services  spending taxpayers  money on quangos has led only to more bureaucrats  more regulation and higher taxes.  his party leader  michael howard  argued a change in direction was needed to get a grip on spending.  labour are creating two britains: the britain of the forgotten majority and bureaucratic britain   he said.  in the real world  people are working harder just to stand still. they ve seen their pensions knocked for six.  they re being squeezed by extra taxes. the forgotten majority are paying the price of bureaucratic britain.   the government has announced plans to cut 100 000 civil servants as part of its efficiency drive. but chief secretary to the treasury paul boateng attacked the tory plans.  the conservatives are committed to cutting labour s public spending plans by a massive £35 billion   he said.  cuts on this scale cannot be found from cutting  bureaucracy  but would require massive cuts to front-line public services such as schools  hospitals and the police.  the liberal democrats have said they would cut the number of whitehall departments to make sure money reaches frontline services.
how political squabbles snowball it s become commonplace to argue that blair and brown are like squabbling school kids and that they (and their supporters) need to grow up and stop bickering.  but this analysis in fact gets it wrong. it s not just children who fight - adults do too. and there are solid reasons why even a trivial argument between mature protagonists can be hard to stop once its got going. the key feature of an endless feud is that everyone can agree they d be better off if it ended - but everyone wants to have the last word.  each participant genuinely wants the row to stop  but thinks it worth prolonging the argument just a tiny bit to ensure their view is heard. their successive attempts to end the argument with their last word ensure the argument goes on and on and on. (in the case of mr blair and mr brown  successive books are published  ensuring the issues never die.) now this isn t because the participants are stupid - it s actually each individual behaving entirely rationally  given the incentives facing them. indeed  there s even a piece of economic theory that explains all this. nothing as obscure as  post-neo-classical endogenous growth theory  which the chancellor himself once quoted - but a ubiquitous piece of game theory which all respectable policy wonks are familiar with.  it s often referred to as the  prisoner s dilemma   based on a parable much told in economics degree courses... about a sheriff and two prisoners. the story goes that two prisoners are jointly charged with a heinous crime  and are locked up in separate cells. but the sheriff desperately needs a confession from at least one of them  to provide enough evidence to convict them of the crime. without a confession  the prisoners will get a minimal sentence on some trumped up charge.  clearly the prisoners  best strategy is to keep their mouths shut  and take the short sentence  but the clever sheriff has an idea to induce them to talk. he tells each prisoner separately  that if they confess - and they are the only one to confess - they ll be let off their crime. and he tells them that if they don t confess - and they are the only one not to confess - they ll get life. now  if you are prisoner confronted with this choice  your best bet is to confess. if your partner doesn t confess  you ll get off completely. and if your partner does confess  you d better confess to ensure you don t get life. the result is of course  both prisoners confess  so the sheriff does not have to let either one off. both prisoners  individual logic was to behave that way  even though both would have been better if they had somehow agreed to shut up. don t worry if you don t entirely follow it - you can to look it up on google  where there are 283 000 entries on it.  the prisoners  dilemma and all its ramifications have truly captured economists in the last couple of decades. it is a parable used to describe any situation where there is an obvious sensible choice to be taken collectively  but where the only rational choice individually is to behave selfishly.  a cold war arms race for example - a classic case where both russia and america would be better off with just a few arms  rather than a lot of arms. but as long as each wants just a few more arms than the other  an arms race ensues with the results that the individually logical decision to buy more arms  results in arms levels that are too high. what economics tells us is that once you re in a prisoners  dilemma - unless you are repeating the experience many times over - it s hard to escape the perverse logic of it. it s no good just exhorting people to stop buying arms  or to stop arguing when all their incentives encourage them to carry on. somehow  the incentives have to change.  in the case of the labour party  if you believe the rift between blair and brown camps is as bad as the reports suggest  solomon s wisdom needs to be deployed to solve the problem. every parent knows there are ingenious solutions to arguments  solutions which affect the incentives of the participants. an example  is the famous rule that  one divides  the other chooses  as a way of allocating a piece of cake to be sliced up between greedy children. in the case of an apparently endless argument  if you want it to come to an end  you have to ensure the person who has the last word is one who loses rather than the one who wins the row. the cost of prolonging the row by even one more briefing  or one more book for that matter  has to exceed the benefit of having the last word  and getting your point in. if the rest of the party can enforce that  they ll have the protagonists retreating pretty quickly.
leaders meet over turkish eu bid tony blair has met italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and german chancellor gerhard schroeder to talk about turkey entering the eu.  the downing street talks covered a range of other topics ahead of an eu summit in brussels later in the week. mr blair is an enthusiastic proponent of talks to bring turkey within the recently-expanded eu. italy and germany also favour an early start to talks  but there is scepticism in france and elsewhere. some are worried that turkey s large and rapidly growing population and low average income might make integration into the eu difficult.  some are concerned that a change of government could lead to turkey reneging on key human rights reforms it has recently enacted. and many in france would prefer turkey to admit that world war i-era killing of armenians constituted genocide. there are also issues in france and the netherlands over the possible problems of integrating the first major muslim nation into the eu. but mr blair and the labour government have been the staunchest backers of turkish accession  provided it sticks with human rights and economic reform. mr blair s official spokesman said:  the prime minister has regular meetings with both of them and particularly in advance of european councils.  the key issue at this week s council will be that of turkey  but they will also discuss a range of other matters.
two nigerian banks set to merge nigerian banks united bank of africa and standard trust bank have agreed plans to merge and create the biggest bank in west africa.  the deal is also in line with a 2004 directive from the nigerian central bank that called for more consolidation in the nation s crowded banking sector. the merger was announced in a statement on standard trust s website on tuesday  but no financial details were revealed. united bank is the third biggest in nigeria in terms of number of branches. standard trust is smaller but more profitable.  the boards of united bank and standard trust  at separate meetings yesterday  approved arrangements to merge both institutions   standard trust said. standard trust is 100% nigerian-owned  but united bank has some foreign investors  including new york-based global depository receipts (32.8%)  and banca nazionale del lavoro and monte del paschi di siena  both from italy  who each have a 2.4% stake.
economy  strong  in election year uk businesses are set to prosper during the next few months - but this could trigger more interest rate rises  according to a report.  optimism is at its highest since 1997 and business will reap the benefits of a continuing rise in public spending  say researchers at bdo stoy hayward. the bank of england is expected to keep rates on hold this week - but they could go up later in the year. rates are likely to rise after the anticipated general election in may. the bdo optimism index - a leading indicator of gdp growth two quarters ahead edged up in january to 102.5  from 102.2 in october. the rise is due  in part  to an increase in public spending and increased merger and acquisition activity.  the only thing blighting business optimism this year will be uncertainties associated with the general election  bdo said. its bdo s output index - which predicts gdp movements a quarter in advance - remained at 100.8 for january  implying gdp growth at 2.9% in the second quarter of 2005. however  the output index is being held back by recent interest rate rises  sterling s strength against the dollar and high oil prices  the group noted. its inflation index  which has risen continuously over the last 8 months  climbed to 110.0 in january from 108.0 in october last year.  the uk is looking strong going into the general election  but businesses need to prepare themselves for a jolt ahead as the bank of england reacts to growth and inflationary pressures   said peter hemington  partner at bdo stoy hayward.  growth will probably slow by the end of 2005 and it is likely that we will see higher interest rates or a sharp drop in demand for products and services.
looks and music to drive mobiles mobile phones are still enjoying a boom time in sales  according to research from technology analysts gartner.  more than 674 million mobiles were sold last year globally  said the report  the highest total sold to date. the figure was 30% more than in 2003 and surpassed even the most optimistic predictions  gartner said. good design and the look of a mobile  as well as new services such as music downloads  could go some way to pushing up sales in 2005  said analysts. although people were still looking for better replacement phones  there was evidence  according to gartner  that some markets were seeing a slow-down in replacement sales.   all the markets grew apart from japan which shows that replacement sales are continuing in western europe   mobile analyst carolina milanesi told the bbc news website.  japan is where north america and western european markets can be in a couple of years  time.  they already have tv  music  ringtones  cameras  and all that we can think of on mobiles  so people have stopped buying replacement phones.   but there could be a slight slowdown in sales in european and us markets too  according to gartner  as people wait to see what comes next in mobile technology. this means mobile companies have to think carefully about what they are offering in new models so that people see a compelling reason to upgrade  said gartner. third generation mobiles (3g) with the ability to handle large amounts of data transfer  like video  could drive people into upgrading their phones  but ms milanesi said it was difficult to say how quickly that would happen.  at the end of the day  people have cameras and colour screens on mobiles and for the majority of people out there who don t really care about technology the speed of data to a phone is not critical.  nor would the rush to produce two or three megapixel camera phones be a reason for mobile owners to upgrade on its own. the majority of camera phone models are not at the stage where they can compete with digital cameras which also have flashes and zooms.  more likely to drive sales in 2005 would be the attention to design and aesthetics  as well as music services. the motorola razr v3 phone was typical of the attention to design that would be more commonplace in 2005  she added. this was not a  women s thing   she said  but a desire from men and women to have a gadget that is a form of self-expression too. it was not just about how the phone functioned  but about what it said about its owner.  western europe has always been a market which is quite attentive to design   said ms milanesi.   people are after something that is nice-looking  and together with that  there is the entertainment side.  this year music will have a part to play in this.  the market for full-track music downloads was worth just $20 million (£10.5 million) in 2004  but is set to be worth $1.8 billion (£94 million) by 2009  according to juniper research. sony ericsson just released its walkman branded mobile phone  the w800  which combines a digital music player with up to 30 hours  battery life  and a two megapixel camera. in july last year  motorola and apple announced a version of itunes online music downloading service would be released which would be compatible with motorola mobile phones. apple said the new itunes music player would become motorola s standard music application for its music phones. but the challenge will be balancing storage capacity with battery life if mobile music hopes to compete with digital music players like the ipod. ms milanesi said more models would likely be released in the coming year with hard drives. but they would be more likely to compete with the smaller capacity music players that have around four gigabyte storage capacity  which would not put too much strain on battery life.
online games play with politics after bubbling under for some time  online games broke through onto the political arena in 2004.  the us presidential election provided a showcase for many  aimed at talking directly to a generation that has grown up with joysticks and gamepads. experts say this reflects how video games are becoming a mainstream part of culture and society. the first official political campaign game was technically launched during the last week of 2003: the iowa game  commissioned by the democrat hopeful howard dean. more than 20 followed suit  including frontrunner  elections  president forever and the political machine  which allowed players to run an entire presidential campaign  including having to cope with the media. others helped raise the stakes during the bush/kerry contest by highlighting a candidate s virtues or his vices.  the phenomenon has astonished the forefathers of political games  a handful of multi-discipline games enthusiasts keen to push frontiers.   when i started researching political games at the university  about five years ago  i thought it was going to be something that would take decades to happen   said gonzalo frasca  computer games specialist at the information technology university of copenhagen.  i must admit that i was the first person to be surprised at seeing how fast they have evolved   added the uruguayan-born researcher  who has so far created games for two political campaigns. many artists and designers are experimenting with this form of gaming with an agenda in projects such as newsgaming.com. the aim is to comment on international news events via games.  the ability of games to simulate reality makes them a powerful modelling tool to interact with actual situations in an original way.   video games generate strong reactions mainly because they are new  but also because our culture needs to learn how to deal with simulation   mr frasca told the bbc news website. this was the case with the one he created for a political party in uruguay  cambiemos  an online puzzle game that offered a view on how the country s problems could be solved by working together.  it s up to us to explore what we can learn from ourselves through play and video games.  ultimately  dr frasca sees games as a small laboratory where we can play with our hopes  fears and beliefs.  children learn a lot about the world through play. there is no reason why we adults should stop doing it as we grow up.   but experts estimate it will still take at least about a decade until this new breed of video gaming communication become a common tool for political campaigns.  this is hardly surprising  compared to other forms of mass media like the worldwide web. only a few years ago  most politicians did not have a webpage  while now it is almost a must-have. dr frasca said:  political campaigns will continue to experiment with video games. they represent a new tool of communication that can reach a younger audience in a language that can clearly speak to them.   it will not replace other forms of political propaganda  but it will integrate itself on to the media ecology of political campaigns.
bond game fails to shake or stir for gaming fans  the word goldeneye evokes excited memories not only of the james bond revival flick of 1995  but also the classic shoot-em-up that accompanied it and left n64 owners glued to their consoles for many an hour.  adopting that hallowed title somewhat backfires on this new game  for it fails to deliver on the promise of its name and struggles to generate the original s massive sense of fun. this however is not a sequel  nor does it relate to the goldeneye film. you are the eponymous renegade spy  an agent who deserts to the bond world s extensive ranks of criminal masterminds  after being deemed too brutal for mi6. your new commander-in-chief is the portly auric goldfinger  last seen in 1964  but happily running around bent on world domination. with a determination to justify its name which is even less convincing than that of tina turner s similarly-titled theme song  the game literally gives the player a golden eye following an injury  which enables a degree of x-ray vision.  rogue agent signals its intentions by featuring james bond initially and proceeding to kill him off within moments  squashed by a plummeting helicopter. the notion is of course to add a novel dark edge to a 007 game  but the premise simply does not get the juices flowing like it needs to.  recent bond games like nightfire and everything or nothing were very competent and did a fine job of capturing the sense of flair  invention and glamour of the film franchise. this title lacks that aura  and when the bond magic shines through  it feels like a lucky accident. the central problem is that the gameplay just is not good enough. quite aside from the bizarre inability to jump  the even more bizarre glaring graphical bugs and dubious enemy ai  the levels simply are not put together with much style or imagination. admittedly the competition has been tough  even in recent weeks  with the likes of halo 2 and half life 2 triumphing in virtually every department. what the game is good at is enveloping you in noisy  dynamic scenes of violent chaos. as is the trend of late  you are made to feel like you are in the midst of a really messy and fraught encounter. sadly that sense of action is outweighed by the difficulty of navigating and battling within the chaos  meaning that frustration is often the outcome. and irregular save points mean you have to backtrack each time you are killed. a minute red dot passes for a crosshair  although the collision-detection is so suspect that the difficulties of aiming weapons are compensated for. shooting enemies from a distance can be tricky  and you will not always know you have picked them off  since dead enemies vanish literally before they have fully hit the floor  and they do so in some woefully uninspiring death animations. it is perhaps indicative of a lack of confidence that the game maker s allow you several different weapons almost immediately and throw you quickly into raging firefights - no time is risked with a measured build-up.  by far the most satisfying element of the game is seeing old favourites like dr no  goldfinger  hat-fiend oddjob and crazed russian sex beast xenia onatopp resurrected after all these years  and with their faces rendered in an impressively recognisable fashion.  there is a real thrill from doing battle with these legendary villains  and it is a testament to the power of the bond universe that they can cut such a dash. but the in-game niggles  combined with a story and presentation that just do not feel sufficiently well thought-through  will make this a disappointment for most. diehard fans of bond will probably find enough here to make it a worthwhile purchase and try to ignore the failings. the game is weak  not completely unplayable. then again  007 fanatics may also take umbrage at the cavalier blending of characters from different eras. given james bond s healthy pedigree in past games  there is every reason to hope that this is just a blip  a commendable idea that just has not worked  that will be rectified when the character inevitably makes his return.  goldeneye: rogue agent is out now
parliament s record of scandal in a locked room at the heart of parliament there is a hive of scandal.  sex  betrayal and custody of children are all there in this affair but this time it has nothing to do with the recent troubles of david blunkett or boris johnson.  few realise that westminster in effect has its own divorce den. for sprinkled among 12 floors of archives are blow-by-blow accounts of marital break-ups - and now you can search what s there online. until 1857  the only way in england to get a full divorce which allowed re-marriage was to obtain an act of parliament by proving adultery or life-threatening cruelty. the legacy is pages of testimonies used in the hearings  dating back to 1670  all recorded among the 325 000 items which fill the 12 floors of the parliamentary archives in parliament s victoria tower. most people researching their family history want to discover some tale of illicit love. this gives them the chance.  divorce by parliament was an expensive process open really only to the rich but the records also include the testimony of maids  butlers and coachmen about their masters and mistresses. among the records is the story of jane campbell  the first woman ever to divorce her husband. that happened in 1801 after she had discovered her husband  edward addison  had committed adultery with her sister jessy.  a transcript of evidence from jessy s maid  amelia laugher  shows her telling how addison frequently passed by her on the way to the room where she had just put her mistress naked to bed. it must have been a killer blow to addison s case - he had already fled abroad rather than pay the £5 000 damages ordered by a civil court. as well as making divorce history  jane campbell won custody of her children - unusual for a woman at the time. but divorces are by no means the only documents in the archives which hold personal details of people often far removed from politics and parliament.  there are the protestation returns from 1642 - lists of the protestants who pledged to  maintain the true reformed protestant religion . there are details of foreign nationals made british citizens by act of parliament  including composer george frideric handel in 1727. and the mass of private bills which  for example authorise the building of railways and roads  contain both the names and addresses of those involved and testimonies giving people a unique perspective on how their ancestors opposed them.  tax bills may be an extra source for pedigree hunters - the longest stretches for about 300m and is longer than the palace of westminster itself  listing the names of appointed tax collectors. this wealth of material has long been open to the public at the house of lords record office  with visitors able to phone ahead when they want to view particular items in the search room. but now five years of work has produced an online catalogue. david prior  assistant clerk of the archives  says the catalogue opens up new possibilities for research.  before  you just could not do it  you faced trawling through pages and pages of printed material   he says. mr prior sees the changes as part of a wider revolution in archives generally.  the archive profession may look fairly staid but is in an enormous period of change  mainly motivated by the potential of it  which is opening up all sorts of vistas for us   he says.  the archives do  of course  hold records of high (and low) politics too for both houses of parliament  including copies of all acts passed since 1497 - the oldest dealing with the employment of workers in the woollen industry in norfolk. records for the commons only date back to 1834 - anything earlier was wiped out by the fire which destroyed most of the parliament buildings in 1834.  but that still leaves some of the most important documents of uk political history - parts of the bill of rights from 1689  the death warrant for charles i  the private papers and diaries of major politicians such as david lloyd george and andrew bonar law. there is also the 1606 act establishing 5 november as a thanksgiving day - the year after the gunpowder plot. that document is likely to feature in the exhibition the archives will put on next year as part of a series of events across london to mark the 400th anniversary of guy fawkes  conspiracy. as mr prior remarks as we walk by shelf after shelf of vellum (parchment made from goat s skin):  all human life is here.
mcilroy continues winning streak james mcilroy stormed to his second international victory in less than a week  claiming the men s 800m at the teag indoor meeting in erfurt.  the northern ireland runner set a new personal best of one minute  46.68 seconds - a time good enough to qualify for the european indoor championships.  i m qualified now and that s what matters most   said the 28-year-old. mcilroy is now hoping to gain a late entry into sunday s international indoor meeting in leipzig. the northern irishman is hoping manager ricky simms can swing it for him to compete after he initially withdrew after contracting a cold. after three successive wins over the past fortnight  mcilroy is brimming with confidence.  i ve been waiting over six years for this to happen and now i m certain my career has turned the corner.  on friday  mcilroy delivered an impressive run despite suffering from his bad cold. the aaa indoor and outdoor champion accelerated away from the field in the final 300m  beating german wolfram mulle by 0.90 seconds. mcilroy set a world-leading mark for 1 000m at the sparkassen cup in stuttgart last weekend. and his time in erfurt makes him third fastest over 800m in the world this year.
angels  favourite funeral song  angels by robbie williams is the song britons would most like played at their funeral  a survey has suggested.  while the melancholy hit topped the uk poll  europeans favoured queen s more upbeat anthem the show must go on as their first choice. frank sinatra s my way was second in the uk vote with monty python s always look on the bright side of life in third place. more than 45 000 people were surveyed by digital tv station music choice.  the european chart  which included denmark  france and germany  put led zeppelin s stairway to heaven in second and ac/dc s highway to hell in third. queen s who wants to live forever was highly favoured by both uk and european voters.  both lists featured only one traditional or classic song each  with britons requesting the royal scots dragoon guards  amazing grace and their continental counterparts opting for mozart s requiem.  wanting to share your most treasured musical gem with those you re leaving behind is the perfect way to sign off and leave a lasting impression   music choice music and marketing manager simon george said.
mobile gaming takes off in india gaming on the move is one of the fastest-growing activities among the tech-savvy in india  says a report.  the indian mobile gaming market is expected to generate about $26m (£13.8m) by the end of 2004  according to market analysts in-stat/mdr. in october  mobile phone users grew by 1.4 million to 44.9 million  overtaking the number of landlines  said the telecom regulatory authority of india. analysts say cheap rates and a huge youth market is driving the market. india has a large population of under-25s  and many in urban areas are fast adopting mobiles as must-have gadgets.  india s mobile gaming market will bring in about $336m (£178m) by 2009  according to the report. mobile gaming is expected to explode globally over the next few years. analysts predict that 220 million people will be playing games on phones by 2009  generating billions for mobile companies.  services other than just voice calls which are offered by mobile operators in india have  as a result of the huge rise in subscribers  grown significantly and rapidly.  the growth of this market sector has attracted publishers  developers  animators  musicians  and content providers  and is also stimulating the development of innovative business models   said clint wheelock  director of in-stat/mdr s wireless research group.   mobile gaming is not just about fun; it also represents one key element of a rich mobile entertainment experience for consumers  and a lucrative market opportunity for industry players.  currently  india has six big games developers and four mobile operators that offer games to their subscribers  said the report. according to in-stat/mdr  it is tipped to make up one of the most important markets in the next wave of mobile multimedia growth.  in january 2003  there were only 10 million mobile subscribers in india. many choose mobiles in rural areas in order to bypass poorer telecoms infrastructure. despite this  the penetration rate is still much lower that other countries. less than 20% of india s total population own a mobile in india  compared to well over 50% in most european countries. the trend echoes the uptake of mobiles in many developing economies  which continues to grow as people opt to leapfrog slower and more expensive state-run fixed-line operators.
uk  discriminated against roma  the government s immigration rules racially discriminated against roma (gypsies) seeking entry into the uk  the law lords have ruled.  it follows a home office move to cut asylum claims by stopping people  mostly roma  from boarding flights to britain from the czech capital  prague. civil rights group liberty said it exposed  racism at the heart of the government s asylum policy . the home office said it had not meant to discriminate against anyone. it said it would look at the implications of the ruling  but pointed out the controls were no longer in place because czechs are now entitled to free movement across europe.  the screening took place at the airport in july 2001  at a time of concern about the number of asylum seekers entering britain.  those refused  pre-clearance  were effectively prevented from travelling to the uk  because no airline would carry them. lady hale  sitting with lords bingham  steyn  hope and carswell  said many roma had good reason to want to leave the czech republic because of persecution. but she said they were treated more sceptically than non-roma passengers by immigration officers  acting on racial grounds . lady hale said immigration officers should have treated all would-be passengers in the same way  only using more intrusive questioning if there was a specific reason.  liberty said statistics suggested roma czechs were 400 times more likely to be stopped by british immigration officials at prague airport than non-roma czechs. it took up the case of six unnamed roma czechs refused entry to britain  and that of the european roma rights centre  which said the measures unfairly penalised roma people. it lost a high court action in october 2002 when a judge said the system was  no more or less objectionable  than a visa control system. he ruled there was no obligation on britain not to take steps to prevent a potential refugee from approaching its border to claim asylum.  the court of appeal then decided the practice almost inevitably discriminated against roma  but that this was justified because they were more likely to seek asylum. immigration law allows officials to discriminate against citizens from named countries  but it does not allow officers to go further than that.  responding to the ruling  a home office spokesman said:  the scheme was operated two years ago as a short-term response to the high levels of passengers travelling from prague who are subsequently found to be ineligible for entry to the uk.   welcoming the ruling  maeve sherlock  chief executive of the refugee council  said:  human rights abuses against the roma in eastern europe are well documented  and it is hugely troubling that the government sought to deny entry to such a vulnerable group.  amnesty international s jan shaw said:  that the government s own asylum policy was being operated discriminatorily is bleakly ironic given that discrimination often lies at the heart of serious human rights abuse  not least in the czech republic.  but the chairman of migration watch uk  sir andrew green  said the house of lords decision was a  step in the wrong direction .  the basic point is that the government has a duty to control our borders and this decision appears to extend the race relations legislation beyond sensible limits.
more power to the people says hp the digital revolution is focused on letting people tell and share their own stories  according to carly fiorina  chief of technology giant hewlett packard.  the job of firms such as hp now  she said in a speech at the consumer electronics show (ces)  was to ensure digital and physical worlds fully converged. she said the goal for 2005 was to make people the centre of technology. ces showcases 50 000 new gadgets that will be hitting the shelves in 2005. the tech-fest  the largest of its kind in the world  runs from 6 to 9 january.  the digital revolution is about the democratisation of technology and the experiences it makes possible   she told delegates.  revolution has always been about giving power to the people.  she added:  the real story of the digital revolution is not just new products  but the millions of experiences made possible and stories that millions can tell.  part of giving people more control has been about the freeing up of content  such as images  video and music. crucial to this has been the effort to make devices that speak to each other better so that content can be more easily transferred from one device  such as a digital camera  to others  such as portable media players. a lot of work still needs to be done  however  to sort out compatibility issues and standards within the technology industry so that gadgets just work seamlessly  she said.  ms fiorina s talk also touted the way technology is being designed to focus on lifestyle  fashion and personalisation  something she sees as key to what people want.  special guest  singer gwen stefani  joined her on-stage to promote her own range of hp digital cameras which ms stefani has helped design and which are heavily influenced by japanese youth culture. the digital cameras  which are due to go on sale in the us by the summer  are based on the hp 607 model. the emphasis on personalisation and lifestyle is a big theme at this year s ces  with tiny  wearable mp3 players at every turn and rainbow hues giving colour to everything. ms fiorina also announced that hp was working with nokia to launch a visual radio service for mobiles  which would launch in europe early this year. the service will let people listen to radio on their mobiles and download relevant content  like a track s ringtone  simultaneously. the service is designed to make mobile radio more interactive.  among the other new products she showcased was the digital media hub  a big upgrade to hp s digital entertainment centre. coming out in the autumn in the us  the box is a networked  high-definition tv  cable set-top box  digital video recorder and dvd recorder. it has a removable hard drive cartridge  memory card slots  and light scribe labelling software which lets people design and print customised dvd labels and covers. it is designed to contain all a household s digital media  such as pre-recorded tv shows  pictures  videos and music so it can all be managed in one place. the hub reflects the increasing move to re-box the pc so that it can work as part of other key centres of entertainment. research suggests that about 258 million images are saved and shared every day  equating to 94 billion a year. eighty per cent of those remain on cameras. media hubs are designed to encourage people to organise them on one box. ms fiorina was one of several keynote speakers  who also included microsoft chief bill gates  to set out what major technology companies think people will be doing with technologies and gadgets in the next 12 months. in a separate announcement during the keynote speech  ms fiorina said that hp would be partnering mtv to replace this year s mtv asia music award. mtv s asia aid will be held in bangkok on 3 february  and is aimed at helping to raise money for the asian tsunami disaster.
anti-terror plan faces first test plans to allow home secretary charles clarke to place terror suspects under house arrest without trial are set for their first real test in parliament.  tories  lib dems and some labour mps are poised to vote against the plans. mr clarke says the powers are needed to counter terror threats. opponents say only judges  not politicians  should be able to order detention of uk citizens. the government is expected to win wednesday s vote in the commons  but faces a battle in the house of lords.  the prevention of terrorism bill was published on tuesday. it proposes  control orders   which would mean house arrest in the most serious cases  and curfews  electronic tagging and limits on telephone and internet access for other suspects.  the two opposition parties are particularly worried that the control orders would initially be imposed on the say-so of the home secretary  rather than a judge. tory shadow home secretary david davis warned of the potential for miscarriages of justice  like the guildford four - for which tony blair recently apologised - as a result of the pressure on politicians to lock up terror suspects.  those pressures would be much more for a politician than they would on a judge and that s why we have serious concerns abut that approach   he told bbc radio 4 s today programme.  mr clarke says he does not intend to use the house arrest powers now - even for the 11 current terror detainees. he also said that any decision he made would be reviewed by a judge within seven days. the foreign terror suspects currently detained are mostly held at london s belmarsh prison. they are held under laws which the law lords have ruled break human rights rules - and which are due to expire on 14 march.  the new powers  designed to replace the existing laws and meet the law lords  concerns  would apply to british as well as foreign terror suspects. critics say that giving politicians the power to deprive uk citizens of their freedom is the biggest attack on civil liberties for 300 years. opposition mps are also angry they will have only two days - wednesday and next monday - to debate the new plans before they pass to the house of lords. but the government says the existing powers run out soon so must be replaced urgently.  in a rare move  the tories and lib dems have jointly tabled a motion opposing the new bill  saying the house arrest plans are  excessive . it argues decisions should be taken on a higher standard of proof and the plan  wrongly infringes the right to liberty  by failing to bring terrorists to trial where there is evidence. mr davis told today:  it gives a minister  for the first time in modern history  the right to detain without trial  without showing the evidence and indeed  in some respects  almost the allegation against the individual concerned.   he questioned why there was  such a rush  to introduce the legislation when mr clarke had indicated he was not planning to use the house arrest powers straight away. liberal democrat home affairs spokesman mark oaten said:  we believe it should be the judge that takes decisions  not politicians.  mr clarke said the security services and police backed his measures and it would be  rash and negligent  to ignore their advice. nobody should doubt that terrorists at home and abroad wanted to attack the uk and its interests  he argued.
elvis set to top uk singles chart rock  n  roll legend elvis is set to top the uk singles chart on sunday  27 years after his death.  the re-release of hit song jailhouse rock was out-selling x factor winner steve brockstein s cover of against all odds by 2 000 copies on tuesday. if the record does make the top spot  it will be elvis  19th uk number one. the last time he topped the charts was with the remix of the little-known song a little less conversation  which was number one in june 2002. if jailhouse rock does reach number one on sunday  it will be the 999th in the history of the uk pop charts. the song first topped the charts in 1958. chart analysts say elvis could score the 1000th number one as well. his record one night will be released the following week  followed the week after by a fool such as i  as part of his record company sonybmg s new elvis campaign. it has called it  the most ambitious singles release campaign in the history of the uk record industry .
kenteris denies faking road crash greek sprinter kostas kenteris has denied claims that he faked a motorbike crash to avoid a doping test days before the start of the olympics.  kenteris and fellow sprinter katerina thanou are set to learn if they will face criminal charges this week. part of the investigation has centred on whether they staged the crash. kenteris insisted:  the accident happened. i went crazy when i found out i had supposedly missed a test and i wanted to rush to the olympic village.  kenteris  speaking on greece s alter television station  also claimed that he asked to be tested for banned substances in hospital after the crash.  i told the hospital  which was an olympics-accredited hospital  to call the ioc and have me tested on the spot but no-one came.   after a drama which dominated newspaper headlines in greece as athens prepared for the start of the athens games  kenteris and thanou eventually withdrew. but kenteris has continually protested his innocence - and on sunday blamed greek olympic committee officials and his former coach christos tzekos for failing to inform him of the test. the 31-year-old insisted he will be happy if he is charged so he can clear his name.  if a decision is taken to have charges filed against me  i will accept it gladly.  a prosecution means that the case will be cleared... i want to go to the end and then we ll see who s right and who isn t.  kenteris  a greek hero after winning gold in the 200m at the 2000 olympics in sydney  also confirmed that he was due to light the flame at the athens opening ceremony.  i had even rehearsed lighting the cauldron   he said.
straw to attend auschwitz service foreign secretary jack straw will visit auschwitz for the 60th anniversary of the former nazi concentration camp s liberation  it has been announced.  prince edward will also join the uk delegation in poland for national holocaust memorial day on 27 january. between 1.1 and 1.5 million people  mainly jews  were killed at auschwitz. the tories said they were glad mr straw had been  shamed  into going  having earlier criticised the decision to send a lower-ranking official. shadow foreign secretary michael ancram said:  i am glad the foreign secretary has finally been shamed into representing britain at this important act of commemoration.  once again this government has shown crass insensitivity until it has been forced by public opinion into doing what it should have done in the first place.   in britain  the queen and prince philip will lead the nation s commemoration at a service in westminster hall  london. the queen will also host a reception for holocaust survivors at st james s palace. altogether  some six million people  mainly jews  perished in the holocaust. the queen s grandson  prince harry  sparked outrage earlier this week after photographs of him wearing a nazi uniform at a costume party emerged. the prince  20  apologised  but critics have called for him to go to auschwitz for the commemoration of the soviets  1945 liberation of the camp. prince harry should see for himself  the results of the hated symbol he so foolishly and brazenly chose to wear   rabbi marvin hier  founder of jewish human rights group the simon wiesenthal center said.
smith loses us box office crown new comedy diary of a mad black woman has ended will smith s reign at the top of the north american box office.  based on a play by tyler perry  who also stars as a gun-toting grandmother  the film took $22.7m (£11.8m) in its first three days of release. after topping the chart for two consecutive weeks  smith s romantic comedy hitch dropped to second place with takings of $21m (£10.9m). keanu reeves  supernatural thriller constantine dropped a place to three. based on the hellblazer comics  the film took $11.8m (£6.1m) on its second week of release. two new entries came next in the chart  with wes craven s horror movie cursed  about a werewolf loose in los angeles  in fourth position with $9.5m (£4.9m).  action comedy man of the house  starring tommy lee jones as a texas ranger assigned to protect a cheerleader squad  came in at fifth with $9m (£4.6m). clint eastwood s boxing drama million dollar baby - recipient of four academy awards  including best picture - continued to perform well in sixth place with takings of $7.2m (£3.74m). martin scorsese s hollywood biopic the aviator - which won five oscars  all in minor categories - held on in ninth place. the low-budget feature diary of a mad black woman stars kimberly elise as a woman thrown out on the streets by her philandering husband. with the help of her grandmother madea (one of three roles played by perry)  she plots revenge. perry  34  is one of america s best-known black playwrights but is a newcomer to film. once made homeless after investing his own money in unsuccessful productions of his work  he now lives in the mansion in which diary of a mad black woman was filmed.
paraguay novel wins us book prize a novel set in 19th century paraguay has won the $10 000 (£5 390) fiction prize at the us national book awards.  lily tuck s the news from paraguay is a fictionalised tale about paraguayan leader francisco solano lopez and his irish mistress. but the annual awards  which were presented in new york on wednesday  were not without controversy. children s author judy blume  who was given an honourary medal  used the ceremony to speak out over censorship.  sales of blume s books have exceeded 75 million  but her work - which features frank narratives about families  religion and sexuality - is closely watched by the censors. blume said:  the urge to ban is contagious. it spreads like wildfire from community to community. please speak out. censors hate publicity.  her medal marks the second year in a row the honourary prize went to someone as notable for popular success as literary greatness. last year s honorary winner  stephen king  accused the industry during the 2003 ceremony of snobbery against popular writers. but his argument that the award should help sell books instead of honouring excellence is not shared by everyone.  this year s fiction panel overlooked high-profile works such as philip roth s the plot against america and instead chose five little-known books  all by new york-based women. one fiction judge  stewart o nan  carried around a note written on a napkin that said:  i would hope that our caring more for the quality of a work than its sales figures make us a friend of books  not an enemy.  the national book awards non-fiction prize was awarded to kevin boyle s for arc of justice  which focuses on a black family s fight to live in a white detroit neighbourhood in the 1920s. the award had created a lot of interest this year after the surprise inclusion of the of the 9-11 commission report looking into the events of the 11 september terrorist attacks on the us. pete hautman won the young people s literature prize for his novel godless. the winner in the poetry category was jean valentine for door in the mountain: new and collected poems  1965-2003.
blair hails turkey-eu talks deal tony blair has hailed a deal bringing turkey a step closer to eu membership as important for the world s future  peace and prosperity .  mr blair has been a leading advocate of turkish membership despite controversy surrounding the idea. leaving a brussels summit mr blair said  the fact turkey is a muslim country does not mean it should be barred . the deal to open formal talks with ankara came despite an eu demand for turkey to recognise cyprus. it was agreed the issue can be tackled at a later date but turkish premier recep erdogan had to accept negotiations did not guarantee his country full eu membership.  if it joins  turkey may have to accept restrictions to limit migration by its citizens. mr blair said having turkey in the eu was of  importance to the future peace and prosperity of my country  britain  and the wider world .   we are stating a fundamental principle that the fact turkey is a muslim country does not mean it should be barred from europe.  on the contrary  if it fulfils the same principles of human rights  then muslim and christian can work together.  under the agreement  turkey must issue a written statement promising to sign an accord effectively recognising the greek cypriot government  but gives turkey more time to sell the idea to its people.  the internationally recognised southern part of cyprus is an eu member  but turkey  which occupies northern cyprus  had previously insisted it would not bow to demands to recognise the country  calling the issue a  red line . it could take up to 15 years before turkey is able to join  and entry cannot be guaranteed. the eu has also announced that it will start accession talks with croatia in april 2005. however  talks will begin only if the country co-operates fully with the un war crimes tribunal for the former yugoslavia.
casual gaming to  take off  games aimed at  casual players  are set to be even bigger in 2005  according to industry experts.  easy-to-play titles that do not require too much time and that are playable online or downloadable to mobile devices will see real growth in the coming year. the trend shows that gaming is not just about big-hitting  games console titles  which appeal more to  hardcore  gamers  said a panel of experts. they were speaking before the annual consumer electronics show in las vegas which showcases the latest trends in gadgets and technologies for 2005. the panel also insisted that casual gamers were not just women  a common misconception which pervades current thinking about gamer demographics.  casual games like poker  pool  bridge  bingo and puzzle-based titles  which can be played online or downloaded onto mobile devices  were  gender neutral  and different genres attracted different players.  greg mills  program director at aol  said its figures suggested that sports-based games attracted 90% of 18 to 24-year-old males  while puzzle games were played by 80% of females. games like bridge tended to attract the over-50 demographic of gamers.  but hardcore gamers who are more attracted to blockbuster gamers which usually require hi-spec pcs  like half-life 2  or halo 2 on xbox  also liked to have a different type of gaming experience.  when hardcore gamers are not playing halo  they are playing poker and pool  based on our research   said geoff graber  director of yahoo games  which attracts about 12 million gamers a month.  with the growth of powerful pc technology and ownership  broadband take-up  portable players and mobile devices  as well as interactive tv  casual gaming is shaping up to be big business in 2005  according to the panel. the focus for the coming year should be about attracting third-party developers into the field to offer more innovative and multiplayer titles  they agreed.  we are at a time where we are on the verge of something much bigger   said mr graber.  casual games will get into their stride in 2005  will be really big in 2006 and will be about community.  with more people finding more to do with their gadgets and high-speed connections  casual games would start to open up the world of gaming as a form of mass-market entertainment to more people. key to these types of titles is the chance they give people who may not see themselves as gamers to dip in and out of games when they liked.  portal sites which offer casual games  like aol  yahoo  and realarcade  as well as other games-on-demand services  allow people to build up buddy lists so they can return and play against the same people. this aspect of  community  is crucial for gamers who just want to have quick access to free or cheap games without committing long periods of time immersed in £30 to £40 console or pc titles  said the panel. about 120 000 people are expected to attend the ces trade show which stretches over more than 1.5 million square feet and which officially runs from 6 to 9 january. the main theme is how new devices are getting better at talking to each other  allowing people to enjoy digital content  like audio  video and images  when they want  and where they want.
police urge pub closure power new powers are needed to close disorderly pubs  bars and clubs for up to a week or even permanently  police chiefs have told mps.  association of chief police officers president chris fox said the current 24-hour closure power did not have enough impact on bad landlords. mr fox s comments follow the controversy over plans to allow pubs to open around the clock. he rejected critics  calls for the law change to be delayed. instead  the new licensing act could help reduce drunken disorder - but only if it was properly planned  he argued.  acpo made its call for stronger closure powers in a paper for the commons home affairs select committee. after the meeting  mr fox said being able to close premises for only 24 hours did not necessarily make an impact.  if it s 12.30 on a saturday morning and you close for 24 hours there s not a lot of pain for the premises because they probably wouldn t open on sunday anyway.   this is about getting through to the management that they can t run a disorderly house without facing some immediate sanctions.  under acpo s proposal  the closure orders would be used only with the agreement of the local licensing authority. the new licensing laws will give police greater powers to close pubs and clubs - but only for 24-hour periods.  mr fox said the drinks industry was currently not regulating itself.  it s making money at the cost of human misery and the public purse  and the strategic planning process has been less than useless   he said. mr fox said the new laws  due to start being phased in next month  could help if food outlets  public transport and public toilets could cope with late-night drinkers.  staggering it (closing hours) will be a solution if the infrastructure is there  if the premises are properly managed and people aren t being served rolling drunk and underage and then tossed out into the street   he said.  we have the problem from 11pm to 2am in any event. we have to get a grip on the underlying causes of this.   acpo wants pubs and clubs which cause extra work for police and hospitals to have to pay towards the costs. home secretary charles clarke is currently looking at the idea of a levy on the drinks industry to pay for the cost of extra policing. the licensing changes have sparked concern among some mps  councils and some senior police officers who fear they could exacerbate drinking problems. culture secretary tessa jowell on tuesday said it was not her job to bow to the campaign against the changes. it was the status quo  not the new laws  which were causing current binge drinking problems  she told bbc two s newsnight. leaked documents have suggested ex-home secretary david blunkett branded new opening hours as a  leap in the dark . but ms jowell insisted his concerns had been met. the police s job against alcohol-related crime would be made easier if all pubs did not close at the same time  she added.
west end to honour finest shows the west end is honouring its finest stars and shows at the evening standard theatre awards in london on monday.  the producers  starring nathan lane and lee evans  is up for best musical at the ceremony at the national theatre. it is competing against sweeney todd and a funny thing happened on the way to the forum for the award. the goat or who is sylvia  by edward albee  the pillowman by martin mcdonagh and alan bennett s the history boys are shortlisted in the best play category.  pam ferris  victoria hamilton and kelly reilly are nominated for best actress. ferris - best known for her television roles in programmes such as the darling buds of may - has made the shortlist for her role in notes on falling leaves  at the royal court theatre. meanwhile  richard griffiths  who plays hector in the history boys at the national theatre  will battle it out for the best actor award with douglas hodge (dumb show) and stanley townsend (shining city). the best director shortlist includes luc bondy for cruel and tender  simon mcburney for measure for measure  and rufus norris for festen.  festen is also shortlisted in the best designer category where ian macneil  jean kalman and paul arditti will be up against hildegard bechtler  for iphigenia at aulis  and paul brown  for false servant. the milton shulman award for outstanding newcomer will be presented to dominic cooper (his dark materials and the history boys)  romola garai (calico)  eddie redmayne (the goat  or who is sylvia ) or ben wishaw (hamlet). and playwrights david eldridge  rebecca lenkiewicz and owen mccafferty will fight it out for the charles wintour award and a £30 000 bursary. three 50th anniversary special awards will also be presented to an institution  a playwright and an individual.
falconer rebuts  charade  claims concessions on a bill which critics claim would allow euthanasia  through the back door  were not a political ploy  the lord chancellor has said.  ministers have been accused of panic in offering last minute changes to the mental capacity bill amid chaotic scenes in the commons on tuesday. lord falconer said it was fair to criticise the late timing of the offer. he said the changes provided a solution to a very difficult issue but some mps argue the situation is still unclear.  the bill allows people to give somebody the power of attorney to make decisions on their behalf if they become too ill to decide for themselves. ministers insist the plans would not change laws on euthanasia and would improve safeguards. critics fear it could allow  killing by omission  through withdrawing treatment  including food and fluids.  tony blair said he would do everything he could to meet concerns about the bill. but changes to the bill must not overturn the law set when a court ruled that doctors could withdraw artificial feeding and hydration from hillsborough coma victim tony bland.  it is important we don t end up in the situation where doctors and consultants are confused about the law and may lay themselves open to prosecution in circumstances where no sensible person would want that to happen   he said.  on tuesday  the government saw off a backbench attempt to force changes to the bill by 297 votes to 203  despite rebellion by 34 labour mps. the revolt was also reduced by news that lord falconer had promised the catholic archbishop of cardiff to strengthen safeguards in the bill. but that only came after mps bombarded constitutional affairs minister david lammy with a barrage of requests for him to read the letter as they complained they had been left in the dark. eventually  he was hurriedly handed the letter to read out five minutes before the crunch votes  prompting claims of a shambles. the deputy speaker later said the debate had not been handled as it should have been.  lord falconer says there will be amendments when the bill goes to the house of lords. he told bbc news:  we have given a commitment to put into the bill a clause that says that nothing in the bill authorises any act where the motive of the person authorising the decision is to end life.  the motive has got to be to end suffering.  he denied the concessions were a  political manoeuvre  forced by panic about the rebellion. it was inevitable that minds became more focused as the bill went through parliament but the result was a  sensible solution   he said.  i don t think it is something to be embarrassed about. these issues are not easy to deal with   he went on. bbc political editor andrew marr said mr lammy was  waste deep in quicksand and sinking fast  after his performance. but lord falconer praised his minister for an  excellent job . former conservative leader iain duncan smith  one of the chief critics of the plans  condemned the debate as a  charade  and complained the promises of changes to the bill were vague.
ultimate game  award for doom 3 sci-fi shooter doom 3 has blasted away the competition at a major games ceremony  the golden joystick awards.  it was the only title to win twice  winning ultimate game of the year and best pc game at the awards  presented by little britain star matt lucas. the much-anticipated sci-fi horror doom 3 shot straight to the top of the uk games charts on its release in august. other winners included grand theft auto: san andreas which took the most wanted for christmas prize. only released last week  it was closely followed by halo 2 and half-life 2  which are expected to be big hits when they are unleashed later this month.  but they missed out on the prize for the most wanted game of 2005  which went to the nintendo title  the legend of zelda. the original doom  released in 1994  heralded a new era in computer games and introduced 3d graphics. it helped to establish the concept of the first-person shooter. doom 3 was developed over four years and is thought to have cost around $15m (£8.3m). the top honour for the best online game of the year went to battlefield vietnam. the chronicles of riddick: escape from butcher bay was handed the unsung hero game of 2004. its release was somewhat eclipsed by doom 3  which was released on the same week. it was  however  very well received by gamers and was praised for its storyline which differed from the film released around the same time. electronic arts was named top publisher of the year  taking the crown from nintendo which won in 2003. the annual awards are voted for by more than 200 000 readers of computer and video games magazines. games awards like this have grown in importance. over the last six years  the uk market for games grew by 100% and was worth a record £1 152m in 2003  according to a recent report by analysts screen digest.
my memories of marley...  to mark the 60th anniversary of the birth of reggae star bob marley  rob partridge - marley s former head of press at island records - remembers the man behind the legend.  partridge worked with marley from 1977 until the jamaican musician s death in 1981.  :  i joined island records in 1977 and the first week i was there i worked on his show at the rainbow theatre. it was one of the last dates he did in london.   : the album exodus came out in 1977 and that provided five hits and confirmed his global superstar status.  by 1979 he was the biggest touring attraction in the world. i remember going to see dates in milan and turin and they were enormous concerts.   : bob was one of the most mesmeric people i ve ever had the privilege to work with.  he must have had an iron will to succeed. bob was a very driven individual. you realised from the start there was a manifest destiny within him that he believed in. he didn t suffer fools gladly. at the risk of stating the obvious  he was an extraordinary song writer and his stage act was perhaps the greatest i ve ever seen. i saw him many times.   :  i recall in 1978 he came to the uk for top of the pops and a daily mirror journalist did a half-hour interview. it was interrupted to do a rehearsal. he came back into the dressing room to resume the interview but saw a world cup match on tv.   he sat down in front of the tv and after 10 minutes it was obvious he wasn t going to move. that was the end of it. the mirror had a very truncated interview.  the last time i saw him was in london in 1980. i arranged for him to play four days of football indoors in fulham.  bob was a good player. we are talking about jamaican-style football. he was an attacking midfield player. his team assembled wherever his gigs were. we played in brazil against some world cup-winning players.   : it was always a struggle for him to connect with black america. reggae did not correspond with disco in the 70s. but bob in the 1990s became one of the great icons in america and the third world.  in 1991  ten years after his death  he sold more records than at any time during his life.  we saw black america taking bob into their hearts for the first time.   :  bob  in worldwide terms  is the greatest music star there has ever been. if you went to africa he would be recognised everywhere  in places john lennon or elvis wouldn t be.  no disrespect to the other artists but a case can be made for him as the greatest  the best and the most influential artist in popular music.   : well 1981 was to be the year he toured africa with stevie wonder. he had only performed in zimbabwe and guinea before.  of course the 1981 tour never happened  but the whole of africa would have embraced him. we can t speculate but he was at the height of his powers and just 36 years old. i had no sense his career was going to go downhill.   :  bob was endlessly optimistic about the way africa would turn out. he realised that nothing was perfect but he had total belief in the power of mankind.  i m sure if he were alive today he would believe africa would firstly become politically free and secondly be able to defeat the aids epidemic.   :  the final tune of his final album was redemption song - one of the most incredible classics of all time.
players sought for $1m prize uk gamers are getting a chance to take part in a $1m tournament thanks to one of the country s top teams.  the four-kings clan is staging a pop idol type competition to find new members who can take on the world s best in the lucrative tournament. four-kings hopes the open qualifiers will turn up gamers good enough to beat all comers at the painkiller game. top players also get a contract with the four-kings team which will pay travelling expenses for the contest.  uk gamers have until 12 november to register their interest in taking part and can sign up via the four-kings  jolt.co.uk and painkiller tournament websites. philip wride  who co-manages the four-kings team  said online qualifiers will be held from 16-28 november to find the best eight players of the painkiller game. he said the clan was running the contest because four-kings does not currently have any players that excel at painkiller. these eight players will be brought together in london on 3-5 december for the bloodline tournament that will find the best two players.  the event will be filmed and the final cut made available online for others to watch. the movie is being put together by simon bysshe who has shot many other films about pro-gaming that have been widely shared online. said mr bysshe:  painkiller is a new game and the opportunity is there for a new player to step up.  painkiller has been described as a game that adds a few modern touches  such as improved graphics  to the old-fashioned first-person shooter. these two players will be put forward as the uk s entrants to the cyberathlete professional league $1m painkiller contest that will take place throughout 2005. the event is being billed as the cpl world tour and will be arranged around ten separate tournaments at different locations around the world. travel expenses to all the stops on the tour will be paid by four-kings for the two uk players who make the grade. the top prize at each stop on the world tour will be $15 000. a further $150 000 will be given to the winner of the grand final due to be held in december 2005. mr wride said any gamer that wins a few tour stop tournaments and the grand final will have a very good year. the first stop on the world tour will be istanbul  turkey from 10-13 february. a total of $50 000 in cash prizes is on offer. the cpl has said that it picked a one-on-one game such as painkiller to make it easier for spectators to follow the action. counter-strike  by far the most popular online game  pits teams against each other and can be confusing to follow if those watching are not familiar with the layout of the maps on which it is played. the decision to pick painkiller was greeted with surprise by many gamers  as it was widely expected that doom 3 would be chosen as the one-one-one title.
sky takes over oscar night mantle sky has signed a major new deal to broadcast this year s academy awards  taking over from three years of live oscar coverage on the bbc.  sky said it was  honoured to have won exclusive broadcasting rights  and promised to cover the event  in a way no other broadcaster could . the bbc denied it had lost a bidding war  saying it had  decided to pass the mantle to another broadcaster . the ceremony  hosted by newcomer chris rock  takes place on 27 february 2005.  sky s coverage will launch with the nominations on 25 january and will include themed programming across sky channels including sky news  sky travel and the biography channel. there will also be a month-long season of oscar-winning films on sky movies in the run up to the event and live uninterrupted coverage on the night.  we are honoured to have won the live and exclusive broadcasting rights for the academy awards   said sky networks  sophie turner laing.  sky is the natural place to see the biggest and most prestigious film event of the year  and will cover the event in a way that no other broadcaster could.   sky first scooped oscar rights from the bbc in 1999  but the bbc won them back in 2001 when sky was forced to pull out of a bidding war due to financial constraints.  bbc viewers will of course be able to watch quality coverage of the 2005 academy awards on the bbc s bulletins and news programmes   a spokesman said. among the films tipped to do well at this year s academy awards are martin scorsese s the aviator  jean-pierre jeunet s a very long engagement and the ray charles biopic  ray.
takeover offer for sunderland fc bob murray  chairman of sunderland fc  has launched a £1.5m ($2.8m) bid for the club after buying broadcaster bskyb s stake in the business.  mr murray is already sunderland s leading shareholder  holding a 37.6% stake  and now hopes to take full control of the championship side. mr murray said the club would find it easier to attract more investment by having a single majority owner. sunderland delisted its shares from the stock market in august.  a lifetime sunderland supporter and board director since 1984  mr murray agreed to buy bskyb s 4.76% holding in the wearside club on tuesday - taking his stake to 42.3%. under stock market rules  mr murray is required to make an offer for the remaining shares that he does not already own at the same price paid for the bskyb holding of 31p a share.  should the offer be fully accepted  mr murray said he expected to pay a maximum of £1.53m for the remaining shares. he also stressed that fans who wanted to keep in touch with the club s financial affairs could retain a small number of shares  enabling them to attend annual meetings.  the football sector is experiencing significant changes and uncertainty   mr murray said in a statement.  the recent speculation surrounding malcolm glazer and manchester united has shown the unsettling effect possible where there are a number of disparate interests   he added.  i believe that this offer will strengthen the company and remove the potential for that type of uncertainty.   sunderland were relegated from the premiership in 2003 but are currently pushing for promotion. the club managed to reduce its losses last year from £20.6m to £1.2m after selling a host of leading players. however  the club s turnover dropped sharply from £42.5m to £28.5m over the same period  because of a fall in broadcast revenues. bskyb bought its stake in sunderland in 1999 as part of a five year media partnership deal. the deal expired last month.
woodward eyes brennan for lions toulouse s former irish international trevor brennan could be one of clive woodward s many surprises when the 44-man lions tour squad is announced.  brennan  who last played for ireland against samoa in 2001  is held in high esteem by the former england coach.  if you speak to the players there s a huge amount of respect for the guy   woodward told the sunday independent.  players tend to know better than most coaches. it s not just the irish  but welsh and english players as well.  the 31-year-old former dublin milkman moved from leinster to toulouse in 2003 and immediately picked up a heineken cup winner s medal in an all-french final against perpignan at lansdowne road.  brennan is highly-rated at stade toulousain  where he is used anywhere in the back five. woodward is ensuring his preparations for the trip to new zealand in june are as thorough as possible.  i ve spoken to quite a few players  and they probably don t know what they re actually saying when we re having these conversations   he told the newspaper.  but you talk about certain players and they ll say if they think they re up to scratch or that they don t want them in their team.  i haven t heard a bad word said against trevor  which  considering he has a pretty tough guy reputation  is  to me  impressive.
blair  pressing us on climate  tony blair is pressing the us to cut greenhouse gases despite its unwillingness to sign the kyoto protocol  downing street has indicated.  officials have confirmed climate change was discussed when influential senator john mccain recently visited mr blair. climate change was an issue the prime minister  wanted to progress  during the uk s presidency of the g8 and eu in 2005  said a spokesman. but he played down reports mr blair was considering a new us-friendly treaty.  according to the times  the uk leader wants to end us isolation with a  kyoto-lite  agreement on the scale and nature of the threat from climate change. he is said to have discussed the idea with mr mccain during his time at number 10. the prime minister is said to believe the united states  refusal to sign the kyoto protocol on emissions is undermining other countries  resolve to cut carbon dioxide production. so far the us has refused to sign up to the kyoto treaty - which aims to cut emissions - branding it politically motivated and not based on science. president bush s advisers have repeatedly denied global warming is taking place.  europe  which disputes the claim  has also signalled it wants to press ahead with talks about longer term climate change action in a way which involves both the united states and developing countries. mr blair s reported treaty would also establish an international programme to develop technology needed for renewable energy and the reduction of carbon emissions  says the times. but there is still apparently  little prospect  of america agreeing to cut emissions  which could further provoke environmental campaigners already angry at the lack of progress. mr blair was left blushing on wednesday when it emerged his manifesto target of a 20% cut to the 1990 greenhouse gas level by 2010 was set to be missed.
relay squad thrilled with honours jason gardener says being made an mbe in the new year honours list underlines the achievement of great britain s 4x100m relay squad at the olympics.  gardener  darren campbell  marlon devonish and mark lewis-francis have all been awarded mbes after beating pre-race favourites usa to gold.  i think this award reinforces what we did on that fantastic night   he said.  this recognition is really inspiring and makes me want to have more success   said lewis-francis. the british sprint quartet produced a string of faultless baton changes in the final to put pressure on the americans.  and when the usa stumbled with a poor switch between justin gatlin and coby miller at the 300m stage  britain edged ahead going into the final bend. then  on cue  lewis-francis ran a textbook final leg  holding off maurice greene to bring team gb home in 38.07 seconds - just one hundredth of a second ahead of their rivals.  winning the gold medal was the highlight of my athletics career so far   said the birchfield harrier.  this award is not just for me  but for all my friends  family and the people who have helped me to get to this level in my sport.  gardener added:  all of us had worked very hard for a long  long time to carry off what most believed was an impossible task.  of course this award is very special  but for me nothing will ever take away winning an olympic gold medal. it s all i ever wanted.  all my life that is what i dreamed of doing. life since then has been fantastic.  campbell agreed receiving the honour capped off what has been a difficult year for the sprinter.  i think the mbe is important because the people closest to me know my journey   said the newport-based athlete.  i ve not just stumbled upon this.  it gives me a lot of joy and satisfaction to know the stuff you do for your country does mean something.   - there was also recognition for james clarke  chairman of the london marathon. he becomes an obe.
pernod takeover talk lifts domecq shares in uk drinks and food firm allied domecq have risen on speculation that it could be the target of a takeover by france s pernod ricard.  reports in the wall street journal and the financial times suggested that the french spirits firm is considering a bid  but has yet to contact its target. allied domecq shares in london rose 4% by 1200 gmt  while pernod shares in paris slipped 1.2%. pernod said it was seeking acquisitions but refused to comment on specifics.  pernod s last major purchase was a third of us giant seagram in 2000  the move which propelled it into the global top three of drinks firms. the other two-thirds of seagram was bought by market leader diageo. in terms of market value  pernod - at 7.5bn euros ($9.7bn) - is about 9% smaller than allied domecq  which has a capitalisation of £5.7bn ($10.7bn; 8.2bn euros). last year pernod tried to buy glenmorangie  one of scotland s premier whisky firms  but lost out to luxury goods firm lvmh. pernod is home to brands including chivas regal scotch whisky  havana club rum and jacob s creek wine. allied domecq s big names include malibu rum  courvoisier brandy  stolichnaya vodka and ballantine s whisky - as well as snack food chains such as dunkin  donuts and baskin-robbins ice cream. the wsj said that the two were ripe for consolidation  having each dealt with problematic parts of their portfolio. pernod has reduced the debt it took on to fund the seagram purchase to just 1.8bn euros  while allied has improved the performance of its fast-food chains.
us show sued for rat-eating stunt a us tv network is being sued for $2.5m (£1.3m) by a viewer who says he was disgusted by watching contestants eat dead rats in a stunt show.  austin aitken is taking action against nbc over its programme fear factor. he said watching the show caused his blood pressure to rise so high that he became dizzy and light-headed. the legal assistant said nbc was  sending the wrong message to viewers that cash can make or have people do just about anything beyond reasoning . the hand-written  four-page lawsuit said:  to have the individuals on the show eat and drink dead rats was crazy and from a viewer s point of view made me throw-up as well as another in the house at the same time.  mr aitken  who lives in cleveland  said that after becoming light-headed  he ran towards the bedroom and knocked his head in a doorway. a spokesman for nbc said it had no comment on the lawsuit  but confirmed the stunt show did feature a rat-eating scene in new york s times square on 8 november. past shows have featured viewers eating spiders and live worms. the programme has been screened in the uk on sky one.
lufthansa flies back to profit german airline lufthansa has returned to profit in 2004 after posting huge losses in 2003.  in a preliminary report  the airline announced net profits of 400m euros ($527.61m; £274.73m)  compared with a loss of 984m euros in 2003. operating profits were at 380m euros  ten times more than in 2003. lufthansa was hit in 2003 by tough competition and a dip in demand following the iraq war and the killer sars virus. it was also hit by troubles at its us catering business. last year  lufthansa showed signs of recovery even as some european and us airlines were teetering on the brink of bankruptcy. the board of lufthansa has recommended paying a 2004 dividend of 0.30 euros per share. in 2003  shareholders did not get a dividend. the company said that it will give all the details of its 2004 results on 23 march.
portable playstation ready to go sony s playstation portable (psp) will go on sale in japan on 12 december.  the long-awaited handheld game playing gadget will cost about 19 800 yen (145 euros) when it hits the shelves. at launch 21 games will be available for the psp  including need for speed  ridge racer  metal gear acid and vampire chronicle. sony has not yet announced when the psp will be available in europe and the us  but analysts expect it to debut in those territories in early 2005.  fifa 2005 is back at the top of the uk games charts  a week after losing it to rival pro evolution soccer 4. konami s pro evo dropped only one place to two  while the only new entry in the top 10 was another football title  lma manager 2005  in at number seven. tony hawk s underground 2 held its own at three  while star wars battlefront inched up to four places to four. there was good news for disney  with the spin-off from the shark s tale film moving up the charts into number eight.  fans of the gran turismo series in europe are going to have to wait until next year for the latest version. sony has said that the pal version of gt4 will not be ready for christmas.  the product is localised into 13 different languages across the pal territories  therefore the process takes considerably longer than it does in japan   it said. gran turismo 4 for the playstation 2 is still expected to be released in japan and the usa this year.  halo 2 has broken video game records  with pre-orders of more than 1.5 million in the us alone. some 6 500 us stores plan to open just after midnight on tuesday 9 november for the game s release.  halo 2 is projected to bring in more revenue than any day one box office blockbuster movie in the united states   said xbox s peter moore.  we ve even heard rumours of fan anticipation of the  halo 2 flu  on 9 november.
veteran martinez wins thai title conchita martinez won her first title in almost five years with victory over anna-lena groenefeld at the volvo women s open in pattaya  thailand.  the 32-year-old spaniard came through 6-3 3-6 6-3 for her first title since berlin in 2000.  it feels really good   said martinez  who is playing her last season on the tour.  to come through like that in an important match feels good.  it s been nearly five years and i didn t think i could do it.  groenefeld was the more powerful player but could not match her opponent s relentless accuracy.  it was my first final  a new experience   said the german.  i think she played a good match  a tough match  but i tried to stay in there. i think the whole week was good for me.
ge sees  excellent  world economy us behemoth general electric has posted an 18% jump in quarterly sales  and in profits  and declared itself  in great shape .   we are benefiting from our growth initiatives and an excellent global economy   said ge s chief executive jeff immelt. ge is the us  biggest firm based on stock market valuation. ge s net profits were $5.37bn (£2.86bn) for the final three months of 2004  while sales came in at $43.7bn. the group  whose businesses range from jet engines to the nbc television channel  forecast sustained growth at between 10-15% for this year and next. ge s shares rose 1% on the news before ending friday 0.24% lower.   the industries ge is in are doing very well. the materials  financial and industrial sectors are all picking up   said steve roukis  an analyst at fund manager matrix asset advisors  which has shares in ge. ge said orders in the fourth quarter were 15% higher than in the same period of 2003   with growth across the board .  in the fourth quarter  nine of our 11 businesses delivered at least double-digit earnings growth   said mr immelt. full year 2004 gains were less spectacular  but still respectable. net profit was up 6% at $16.6bn. last year  ge bought vivendi universal  merging it with nbc to form nbc universal. the success of universal studio s film  ray   a portrait of jazz musician ray charles  has helped boost earnings at the unit.
talks aim to avert pension strike talks aimed at averting a series of national strikes over pensions reforms will take place this weekend.  five public sector unions will hold private talks with deputy prime minister john prescott at labour s spring conference in gateshead. they want the government to withdraw regulations - due to be introduced in weeks - which would raise the pension age for council workers from 60 to 65. up to 1.4m workers could take part in a strike already earmarked for 23 march. however  all sides are anxious to avoid a major confrontation in the run up to the general election  said bbc labour affairs correspondent stephen cape. in four days  britain s biggest union unison will start balloting 800 000 local government workers on strikes. other public sector unions have pledged to follow. it is just weeks before new regulations are introduced to raise the pension age of local government workers.  the five unions meeting mr prescott want the government to withdraw these regulations. this would allow months of tough negotiations to follow  said our correspondent. but a spokesman for mr prescott warned that the changes to the local government pension scheme would have to go ahead in april. privately ministers believe this will be the  less painful  option  our correspondent added. the public and commercial services union (pcs) will co-ordinate any industrial action with up to six other public sector unions. pcs leader mark serwotka warned last week that there could be further walkouts unless there was a government rethink.  for a government that lectures everyone on choice - choice on public service  choice on this and choice on that - isn t it ironic that they re saying to public sector workers there is no choice   he said.  if you want the pension you were promised when you started you must work for an extra five years - that is working until people drop.  in the 20th century  it s completely unacceptable.   unison s 800 000 workers  the transport and general workers  union s 70 000 and amicus  20 000 are among those being balloted about a 23 march walkout. mr prescott held a private meeting with senior union figures last week. it is understood no deal was offered in that meeting but there was room for further negotiations.
oil companies get russian setback international oil and mining companies have reacted cautiously to russia s decision to bar foreign firms from natural resource tenders in 2005.  us oil giant exxon said it did not plan to take part in a new tender on a project for which it had previously signed a preliminary agreement. miner highland gold said it regretted any limit on privatisation while bp  a big investor  declined to comment. only firms at least 51% russian-owned will be permitted to bid.  the federal natural resources agency said  the government is interested in letting russian companies develop strategic resources . the foreign ownership issue will be dealt with according to russia s competition law  natural resources minister yuri trutnev was quoted as saying by the interfax news agency. no further details were given  with mr trutnev suggesting that russia may decide on a case-by-case basis. observers said that the move may represent a shift in policy  as the administration of vladimir putin puts the protection of national interests above free market dynamics. russia recently wrested back control of a large chunk of its oil industry from stock-market listed company yukos  a move that prompted calls of outrage from many investors.  analysts warned that it was still too early to draw too many conclusions from this new set of proposals.  companies echoed this sentiment  saying that they would require more information before ringing the alarm bells.  it s not good. but it is very understandable   said al breach  an economist at ubs brunswick.  but if the investment climate is stable - that s much more important.  foreigners of course would like to have free entry but... this is not the end of the world.  a number of other nations  including mexico  saudi arabia and kuwait  protect their national resources from foreign firms. what has surprised observers is that since the collapse of communism russia has been courting foreign investment.  bp spent $7.5bn to create russian-registered oil company tnk-bp  and has a partnership to develop the sakhalin 5 petroleum field with state-owned rosneft. exxon  the world s largest oil company  has signed preliminary agreements to develop the sakhalin 3 field. company spokesman glenn waller said exxon still considered the deal valid  despite russia inviting new offers for the land block. according to mr waller  exxon  were not planning to bid at a new tender anyway .  we regret the ministry has taken such a decision   said ivan kulakov  deputy chairman of highland gold - a mining firm that has the motto  bringing russia s gold to market .  it would be a shame if that has a negative impact on the investment climate.  other firms that have been linked with investment in russia include france s total  the us-based chevrontexaco  and miner barrick gold.
ukraine steel sell-off  illegal  the controversial sell-off of a ukrainian steel mill to a relative of the former president was illegal  a court has ruled.  the mill  krivorizhstal  was sold in june 2004 for $800m (£424m) - well below other offers. president viktor yushchenko  elected in december  is planning to revisit many of ukraine s recent privatisations. krivorizhstal is one of dozens of firms which he says were sold cheaply to friends of the previous administration.  on wednesday  prime minister yulia tymoshenko said as many as 3 000 firms could be included on the list of firms whose sale was being reviewed.  mr yushchenko had previously said the list would be limited to 30-40 enterprises. more than 90 000 businesses in all  from massive corporations to tiny shopfronts  have been sold off since 1992  as the command economy built up when ukraine was part of the soviet union was dismantled. analysts have suggested that the government needs to avoid the impression of an open-ended list  so as to preserve investor confidence.  thursday s ruling by a district court in perchesk overturned a previous decision in a lower court permitting the sale. the consortium which won the auction for the mill was created by viktor pinchuk  son-in-law of former-president leonid kuchma  and rinat akhmetov  the country s richest man. the next step is for the supreme court to annul the sale altogether  opening the way for krivorizhstal to be resold. mr yushchenko has suggested a fair valuation could be as much as $3bn. one of the foreign bidders who lost out  steel giant lnm  told bbc news that it would be interested in any renewed sale.
uk gets official virus alert site a rapid alerting service that tells home computer users about serious internet security problems is being launched by the uk government.  the service  it safe  will issue warnings about damaging viruses  software vulnerabilities and weaknesses on devices such as mobile phones. alerts tell people how the threats affect them and what they can do to avoid trouble and protect themselves. the service will be free and those who sign up can get e-mail or text alerts. the scheme is aimed at home users and small businesses. the government estimates it will issue security alerts about six to 10 times a year  based on previous experience of virus outbreaks.  there is a clear need for easy-to-understand and simple independent advice for non-technically minded people who use computers either at home or at work   said home office minister hazel blears.  the purpose of this new government service is to ensure computer users are aware of the risks involved and how to deal with them easily and effectively without causing alarm.  those signing up will only be told about the most serious security threats that have the potential to affect millions of people.  full-time staff are being employed to comb through the many hundreds of alerts issued each year by computer security firms to spot which ones have the potential to catch out a large number of people between alerts the service will occasionally send messages giving people advice about safe ways to use their computers and phones.  it safe will take our technical expertise and use it to help home users understand the risks and keep their computer systems  mobile phones and a range of related consumer electronic items  safe   said roger cumming  director of the national infrastructure security coordination centre (niscc).  the niscc  which is running the service  also stressed that those signing up would still need to use anti-virus software  firewalls  and software updates to stay secure. warnings about security problems will tell people what the problem is  how it affects them and what they can do to avoid trouble. alerts will not be issued unless users can do something to protect themselves against the threat. this might include downloading an update from an anti-virus vendor or updating software to close loopholes and fix vulnerabilities. however no software patches or programs will actually be dispensed through the site. the alerts will tell people how to go about getting hold of patches from security firms. the niscc spokesman said the site and alerting service would stay in existence for as long as there were security bugs on home computers and other gadgets.  government statistics show that more than half of all uk households own a home computer. it was estimated that almost 13 million of these were able to access the internet in 2004. the launch comes as the number of viruses and other malicious programs in existence is reaching unprecedented numbers. in september 2004  the number of malicious programs circulating topped the 100 000 mark. some fear that this figure could hit 150 000 by september 2005. the creation of the national alert service follows similar efforts in the netherlands and us. the national alerting service for the netherlands (aka de waarschuwingsdienst) and the us national cyber alerting service also tell citizens of serious security threats.
van gogh festival film withdrawn murdered director theo van gogh s controversial film submission has been pulled from the rotterdam film festival because of security fears.  it was one of three of his works to be shown as part of a freedom of expression event in tribute to the late film-maker s life. the film is critical of the treatment of women under islam. its tv screening is thought to have led to his murder. the 10-day dutch festival begins on wednesday. submission was made with liberal somali-dutch politician ayaan hirsi ali and was due to be shown on 30 january. van gogh was shot and stabbed to death in november 2004 several months after receiving death threats following submission s first broadcast on dutch television. two of van gogh s other films will be shown as planned  including the theatrical world premiere of his last feature 06/05.  festival director sandra den hamer said:  the festival reflects what happens around us and within cinema itself.  the festival opens with the french film the 10th district court  moments of trials made by raymond depardon. the event sees 14 films competing to win three top tiger awards which aim to introduce promising new talent. new sections added to this year s festival include cinema of the future and cinema of the world  with special focus on russian and south-east asian productions. there is also an iraqi-german offering entitled underexposure  which looks at life in iraq after saddam hussein.
palestinian economy in decline despite a short-lived increase in palestinian jobs in 2003  the economy is performing well below its potential  said a world bank report.  unemployment stood at 25%  compared with 10% before the uprising against israeli occupation four years ago. young people are particularly hard hit with 37% out of work  compared with 14% four years ago. but 104 000 new jobs were created last year during a brief easing of violence and closures. however  during the first half of this year  the palestinian economy lost more than 22 000 jobs. last year s growth rate of 6% can also be attributed to this temporary gap in violence  the report said. according to the report  intifada  closures and palestinian economic crisis: an assessment  there is a close link between the number of closures - both border closures and internal closures between cities - and palestinian economic problems. the closures arranged by israel restrict the movement of palestinian people and goods  slowing down trade.   closures are a key factor behind today s economic crisis in the west bank   said nigel roberts  world bank country director for the west bank and gaza. nearly half of all palestinians - some 47% - live below the poverty line and are particularly vulnerable to economic shocks. the report said even more would be on the poverty line without an average of $950m a year from international donors  some of which goes towards job creation. it also called on the palestinian authority to revive its reform programme and maintain financial discipline to create an investment-friendly climate. this week colin powell  us secretary of state was visiting the west bank to stress us support for a smooth palestinian election in january.
microsoft releases bumper patches microsoft has warned pc users to update their systems with the latest security fixes for flaws in windows programs.  in its monthly security bulletin  it flagged up eight  critical  security holes which could leave pcs open to attack if left unpatched. the number of holes considered  critical  is more than usual. they affect windows programs  including internet explorer (ie)  media player and instant messaging. four other important fixes were also released. these were considered to be less critical  however. if not updated  either automatically or manually  pc users running the programs could be vulnerable to viruses or other malicious attacks designed to exploit the holes. many of the flaws could be used by virus writers to take over computers remotely  install programs  change  and delete or see data.  one of the critical patches microsoft has made available is an important one that fixes some ie flaws. stephen toulouse  a microsoft security manager  said the flaws were known about  and although the firm had not seen any attacks exploiting the flaw  he did not rule them out. often  when a critical flaw is announced  spates of viruses follow because home users and businesses leave the flaw unpatched. a further patch fixes a hole in media player  windows messenger and msn messenger which an attacker could use to take control of unprotected machines through .png files. microsoft announces any vulnerabilities in its software every month. the most important ones are those which are classed as  critical . its latest releases came the week that the company announced it was to buy security software maker sybari software as part of microsoft s plans to make its own security programs.
ferrero eyes return to top form former world number one juan carlos ferrero insists he can get back to his best despite a tough start to 2005.  the 2003 french open champion has slipped to 64 in the world after a year of illness and injuries in 2004  but is confident that his form will return.  i don t know when it is going to happen   ferrero told bbc sport.  but i have a lot of confidence in me that i will be the same juan carlos as i was before  and very soon. i feel 100% again mentally.  the 25-year-old spaniard joins a top field for the abn amro world tennis tournament in rotterdam this week as he looks to add to just two wins in 2005. he opens against rainer schuettler and potentially faces fourth seed david nalbandian in the second round.  because i m no longer seeded it s tougher   ferrero admitted.  i had to play against joachim johansson in the first round last week in marseille.   in the past when i was a top seed i would have played a match like that in the quarters or semi-finals.  this is the big difference but i have to do it to get higher in the rankings.  despite this  ferrero insists he is feeling positive after chicken pox and a rib injury destroyed last season.  physically i am 100% since december of last year   said ferrero.  i was working very hard before the davis cup final to prepare and i ve felt 100% from then until now.  the difficult moments were when i knew that i had the chicken pox and that it would take two or three months to recover.  i had to start from zero again physically because the virus left me at zero per cent.  when i started to come back i had my rib broken when i fell on court and that was another two months out. those five months were pretty difficult for me.   among the low points of a difficult year for ferrero was the decision of spain captain jordi arrese to drop him for the davis cup final against the usa.  it was difficult because i had been playing well for the whole year and the coaches told me that i would play   said ferrero.  but then i had some problems with my hand two days before the friday matches so they decided to choose nadal instead.  it was difficult for me not to be in the friday matches but i had to understand.  inside me i wanted to play but this was the decision of the captain and they had to make it.
anelka  eyes man city departure  striker nicolas anelka reportedly wants to leave manchester city in search of champions league football.  anelka  25  is in talks over a contract extension beyond 2007 with city but is believed to fear his career will go stale if he stays at the club. the news of the world reports that anelka told a french magazine:  i either decide to win titles or to have an easy life.  i think i will always choose football  if a great club makes me an offer.  he added:  to win titles you need players who have the capability of doing so. if we stagnate between eighth and 15th place it s impossible to progress.  if i am going to score goals and not win  there is a risk it is going to create a feeling of being fed up.  anelka has earned a reputation for being a difficult character to handle after spells at arsenal  real madrid and paris st germain and he feels that is now coming back to haunt him.   i am in talks to sign an extension to my contract   he said.  i am well here but the sporting aspect also comes into account.  playing for eighth place is good but i miss the champions league.  i won it with real madrid in 2000 and i need to be playing in it - and i should be playing in it.  i m not in it because of things that have happened in the past and had nothing to do with football.  but i don t blame anyone. it s a bit my fault.
uk  world s biggest music buyer  uk consumers are the biggest music buyers in the world  according to new figures released on tuesday by the british phonographic industry (bpi).  but global sales of recorded music were flat in 2004  with growing sales in dvd music videos offset by online and physical piracy in major markets. the uk music industry recorded an overall 3% increase in volume sales  mostly due to its robust albums market. however  world music sales declined by 1.3% to $33.6 billion (£17.7 billion). the uk cd albums market grew by 4.5% in 2004 with a record 174.6 million units sold. on average every briton buys 3.2 cds per person per year.  around 26 000 albums are released in the uk each year  making britain second only to the us in terms of the number of releases. overall sales were driven by new uk-signed artists such as keane  katie melua and scissor sisters  whose debut album sold almost 1.6 million copies in the uk.  a slew of great new british artists have met uk music fans  demand for great music   said bpi chairman peter jameson. the best-selling album globally was usher s confessions - one of eight albums to sell more than five million copies in 2004.  the growth in the dvd market and a sharp increase in sales of digital music ensured a strong market in the us. the total number of tracks downloaded last year were up more than tenfold on 2003. digital sales in the us in the first two months of 2005 are already more than double that of the same period in 2004.  however  some markets in continental europe and asia - notably sweden  finland  france  spain and south korea - have been drastically hit by internet piracy. australia  italy and the netherlands also saw a decline.  on the positive side digital sales are booming   said john kennedy  chief executive of the international federation of phonographic industries (ifpi).  however  commercial piracy and illegal file-sharing are continuing to depress our markets.  the priority in the coming year is to step up the advance of legitimate digital sales and sustain our anti-piracy efforts.   the main choice today s music fan now has to make is whether to get music legally or illegally   added mr jameson.
mayor will not retract nazi jibe london mayor ken livingstone has again refused to retract a nazi insult made to a jewish reporter.  labour s mr livingstone  who says he is  standing by  his remarks  had accused an evening standard journalist of being like a  concentration camp guard . at his weekly press conference on tuesday he said his comments were not racist and refused to apologise. he said to media representatives:  if you think they are racist  i think you are wrong.  the mayor said his comments would not affect the 2012 olympic bid and added that his determination to stand up for what he believed in may impress bid chiefs  who arrived in london on tuesday.  i think it is important that the ioc (international olympic committee) members realise that when we get the games...they have a mayor who is not going to panic  change course or get in a great flap but will deliver the games on time and to budget   he said.  on tuesday  the mayor said he would be making a full written response to the chairman of the assembly. two motions were passed by the london assembly  which is made up of 25 members elected to examine the mayor s activities  on monday asking him to apologise and withdraw his comments. the mayor said he had recounted to the assembly a number of  examples of intrusion by journalists  into his  and his family s private life.  i don t suggest for one minute that has anything to do with the holocaust which was uniquely the most evil chapter in history.  but when reporters say to me i m only doing this because it s my job... that s the same abdication of moral responsibility at the thin end of the wedge that in its most extreme and horrific version ends up with others being prepared to stand as a concentration camp guard.   we are responsible for our own choices in this life  i always have been and so have reporters.  an official complaint has been made to local government watchdogs by the board of deputies of british jews  demanding an investigation by the standards board of england. it has the power to suspended or bar him from office but mr livingstone said:  there must have been 20 instances like this over the last 24 years.   i have never in response to any of that modified a policy i believed to be right or modified a position i believed to be right and i don t intend to now.  because if i do that effectively you hand power over your policies and position to the editors of papers.  on tape mr livingstone  who once worked as a freelance restaurant critic on the paper  is heard asking reporter oliver finegold if he is a  german war criminal . mr finegold replies:  no  i m jewish  i wasn t a german war criminal. i m quite offended by that.  the mayor then says:  ah right  well you might be  but actually you are just like a concentration camp guard  you are just doing it because you are paid to  aren t you
dutch watch van gogh s last film the last film to be made by the slain dutch director theo van gogh  called 06/05  has been premiered in the hague.  members of van gogh s family and celebrities attended the screening of 06/05  based on the murder of the anti-immigration politician pim fortuyn. van gogh was shot and stabbed to death in amsterdam six weeks ago. a dutch-moroccan man suspected of radical islamist links has been charged. the killing  and fortuyn s death in 2002  convulsed the netherlands. many dutch people have questioned their country s self-image as a peaceful  tolerant nation in the wake of the murders  which triggered heated debate about immigration.  an animal rights activist was sentenced to 18 years in prison last year for killing fortuyn. earlier this year  van gogh made a film accusing islam of promoting violence against women. it caused outrage among muslims and death threats were made against him. the film 06/05 will become available on the internet on wednesday and go on general release in dutch cinemas in january. van gogh s movie mixes real images of the day of fortuyn s murder with a fictional plot about dutch intelligence services conspiring to silence the politician. the story unfolds through the eyes of a freelance photographer who unwittingly takes pictures revealing the involvement of dutch authorities in fortuyn s murder. photographer jim de booy then goes on the run from secret service agents who burgle his home and threaten his family.
prodigy join v festival line-up essex act prodigy are to headline the second stage at this year s v festival  joining main stage headliners scissor sisters and franz ferdinand.  the event  which is in its 10th year  will be held at two venues - hylands park in essex and weston park in staffordshire on 20 and 21 august. meanwhile  rock veterans new order have joined the t in the park line-up alongside athlete and green day. the manchester band will play on 9 july at scotland s biggest festival. it will be their debut performance at the music event which is held over the weekend of 9 and 10 july in balado near kinross. other bands at the sold-out festival include queens of the stone age  the killers  keane  the streets and foo fighters.  a month later at the v festival  prodigy will play at weston park on saturday 20 august and hylands park on sunday 21 august and the chemical brothers vice versa. it will be the chemical brothers  only uk festival performance of the year. v festival director bob angus said:  with the prodigy and the chemical brothers now confirmed to headline the second stage  we are headed for a really stellar line-up.  we pride ourselves on putting on an unbeatable live music experience and v festival 2005 will not disappoint.  tickets for the v festival go on sale on friday 11 march.
broadband takes on tv viewing the number of europeans with broadband has exploded over the past 12 months  with the web eating into tv viewing habits  research suggests.  just over 54 million people are hooked up to the net via broadband  up from 34 million a year ago  according to market analysts nielsen/netratings. the total number of people online in europe has broken the 100 million mark. the popularity of the net has meant that many are turning away from tv  say analysts jupiter research. it found that a quarter of web users said they spent less time watching tv in favour of the net  the report by nielsen/netratings found that the number of people with fast internet access had risen by 60% over the past year.  the biggest jump was in italy  where it rose by 120%. britain was close behind  with broadband users almost doubling in a year. the growth has been fuelled by lower prices and a wider choice of always-on  fast-net subscription plans.  twelve months ago high speed internet users made up just over one third of the audience in europe; now they are more than 50% and we expect this number to keep growing   said gabrielle prior  nielsen/netratings analyst.  as the number of high-speed surfers grows  websites will need to adapt  update and enhance their content to retain their visitors and encourage new ones.  the total number of europeans online rose by 12% to 100 million over the past year  the report showed  with the biggest rise in france  italy  britain and germany.  the ability to browse web pages at high speed  download files such as music or films and play online games is changing what people do in their spare time.  a study by analysts jupiter research suggested that broadband was challenging television viewing habits. in homes with broadband  40% said they were spending less time watching tv. the threat to tv was greatest in countries where broadband was on the up  in particular the uk  france and spain  said the report. it said tv companies faced a major long-term threat over the next five years  with broadband predicted to grow from 19% to 37% of households by 2009.  year-on-year we are continuing to see a seismic shift in where  when and how europe s population consume media for information and entertainment and this has big implications for tv  newspaper and radio   said jupiter research analyst olivier beauvillian.
battered dollar hits another low the dollar has fallen to a new record low against the euro after data fuelled fresh concerns about the us economy.  the greenback hit $1.3516 in thin new york trade  before rallying to $1.3509. the dollar has weakened sharply since september when it traded about $1.20  amid continuing worries over the levels of the us trade and budget deficits. meanwhile  france s finance minister has said the world faced  economic catastrophe  unless the us worked with europe and asia on currency controls. herve gaymard said he would seek action on the issue at the next meeting of g7 countries in february. ministers from european and asian governments have recently called on the us to strengthen the dollar  saying the excessively high value of the euro was starting to hurt their export-driven economies.  it s absolutely essential that at the meeting of the g7 our american friends understand that we need coordinated management at the world level   said mr gaymard.  thursday s new low for the dollar came after data was released showing year-on-year sales of new homes in the us had fallen 12% in november - with some analysts saying this could indicate problems ahead for consumer activity.  commerce department data also showed consumer spending - which drives two thirds of the us economy - grew just 0.2% last month. the figure was weaker than forecast - and fell short of the 0.8% rise in october. the official us policy is that it supports a strong dollar but many market observers believe it is happy to let the dollar fall because of the boost to its exporters.  the us government has faced pressure from exporter organisations which have publicly stated the currency still has further to fall from  abnormal and dangerous heights  set in 2002. the us says it will let market forces determine the dollar s strength rather than intervene directly. statements from president bush in recent weeks highlighting his aim to cut the twin us deficits have prompted slight upturns in the currency. but while some observers said the quiet trade on thursday had exacerbated small moves in the market  most agree the underlying trend remains downwards. the dollar has now fallen for a third consecutive year and analysts are forecasting a further  albeit less dramatic weakening  in 2005.  i can see it finishing the year around $1.35 and we can see that it s going to be a steady track upward for the euro/dollar in 2005  finishing the year around $1.40   said adrian hughes  currency strategist with hsbc in london.
fiat mulls ferrari market listing ferrari could be listed on the stock market as part of an overhaul of fiat s carmaking operations  the financial times has reported.  it said fiat was set to restructure its business after reaching a $2bn (1.53bn euros; £1.05bn) settlement with gm about fiat s ownership. steps being considered include listing ferrari and bringing maserati and alfa romeo closer together  it said. despite strong sales of alfa romeo  fiat s car business is making a loss.  under the proposals - which the paper said could be announced within days - the iconic sportscar maker could be listed separately on the market. fiat owns a 56% stake in ferrari -best known for its dominant formula one motor racing team - having first bought into the business in 1969. it considered floating ferrari in 2002 but opted to sell a minority stake to italian bank mediobanca for 775m euros ($1bn). that sale valued ferrari - which owns the maserati brand - at 2.3bn euros. the price tag would change if maserati was stripped out. the financial times said fiat may transfer maserati within its wholly- owned alfa romeo division in an effort to exploit commercial synergies. such a move would help alfa romeo and maserati to share marketing  distribution and research & development costs. maserati and ferrari sell about 10 000 cars between them and both companies broke even in 2003.  fiat  italy s largest private sector employer  did not comment on the reported changes. fiat recently negotiated an end to its alliance with general motors. the us firm agreed to pay $2bn to exit an agreement under which it could have been liable to buy fiat outright. analysts said the reported restructuring was evidence of the greater flexibility which fiat now had to develop the business.
de niro film leads us box office film star robert de niro has returned to the top of the north american box office with his film hide and seek.  the thriller shot straight to the number one spot after taking $22m (£11.7m) at the box office. de niro recently spent three weeks at the top with comedy meet the fockers  which was at number five this week. oscar hopefuls the aviator  million dollar baby and sideways all cashed in on their multiple nominations with stronger ticket sales.  in hide and seek  de niro plays a widower whose daughter has a creepy imaginary friend. despite lukewarm reviews from critics  the film took more than the expected $18m (£9.5m).  the element of a real actor in a psychological thriller certainly elevated it   said bruce snyder  president of domestic distribution at 20th century fox. clint eastwood s million dollar baby led the oscar hopefuls with $11.8m (£6.3m)  coming in at number three during its first weekend of wide release. the aviator  a film biography of howard hughes that leads the oscar field with 11 nominations  was at number six for the weekend with $7.5m (£4m). oscar best-picture nominee sideways entered the top ten for the first time in its 15th week of release. it came in seventh $6.3 (£3.35m). last week s top film  ice cube s road-trip comedy are we there yet   slipped to second place with $17m (£9m)  while coach carter fell two places to number four  taking $8m (£4.25m) in its third week. rounding out the top ten were in good company - starring dennis quaid and scarlett johansson - racing stripes and assault on precinct 13.
blair returns from peace mission prime minister tony blair has arrived back from his diplomatic mission to the middle east to try to resurrect the peace process.  mr blair held talks with his israeli counterpart  ariel sharon  and the palestinian leader  mahmoud abbas. he confirmed that a renewed drive to reform the palestinian authority and address security issues would come at a london conference in march. mr blair also made a surprise trip to iraq this week. the israelis described the meeting as important but said they would not need to attend. mr blair briefly visited the tomb of yasser arafat in ramallah - the first world leader to do so. he nodded briefly towards the tomb  rather than lay a wreath  in what palestinian officials said was a compromise gesture agreed at the last minute.  the bbc s paul reynolds says the london conference will be a limited measure to shore up the leadership of mahmoud abbas  also known as abu mazen  who is expected to win the palestinian presidential election on 9 january. at a news conference following talks with mr blair  mr abbas said the british prime minister was  in a unique position to help us progress in our peaceful pursuit . he added:  your endeavour to hold a conference in london is another example of your deep commitment to this purpose.  in an interview with the bbc s political editor andrew marr  mr blair said getting progress between israelis and palestinians would be  tough  but at least we have got the first step . mr blair acknowledged some people believed he was too close to the israelis  but said the israelis were entitled to expect palestinians to give up terrorism. he argued that mr sharon was committed to the internationally-agreed roadmap peace plan and said his bid to disengage from gaza had to be part of the peace process  not the end of it. earlier  mr sharon again said he had not seen  the slightest step  the palestinians were working to end terror attacks - though he acknowledged palestinian leaders were in the middle of an election campaign that could be hampering their efforts. before visiting israel  mr blair made a surprise visit to iraq  where he met leaders in baghdad during his first trip to the city. he was briefed on preparations for the national poll  which is scheduled for next month but is threatened by a deadly campaign of insurgent violence. he also flew to basra in southern iraq where british forces are stationed.
downloads enter us singles chart digital music downloads are being included in the main us singles chart for the first time.  billboard s hot 100 chart now incorporates data from sales of music downloads  previously only assigned to a separate download chart. green day s boulevard of broken dreams is currently number two in billboard s pop chart  and tops its digital chart. download sales are due to be incorporated into the uk singles chart later this year.  digital sales in the us are already used to compile billboard s hot digital sales chart. they will now be tallied with sales of physical singles and airplay information to make up its new hot 100 chart. its second new chart - the pop 100 - also combines airplay  digital and physical sales but confines its airplay information to us radio stations which play chart music. in addition to green day  other artists in the current us digital sales top 10 include kelly clarkson  the game and the killers.  sales of legally downloaded songs shot up more than tenfold in 2004  with 200 million track purchased online in the us and europe in 12 months  the international federation of the phonographic industry (ifpi) reported last month. in the uk sales of song downloads overtook those for physical singles for the first time at the end of last year. the last week of december 2004 saw download sales of 312 000 compared with 282 000 physical singles  according to the british phonographic industry. the uk s first official music download chart was launched last september  compiling the most popular tracks downloaded from legal uk sites - including itunes  od2  mycokemusic.com and napster. westlife s flying without wings - a 1999 track reissued for the occasion - was the first number one of the uk download chart.  a spokesman for the british phonographic industry (bpi) said the first combined uk download and sales chart was due to be compiled  within the first half of this year .  work is going on across the music business right now to make sure the new chart works to plan   he said. the bpi spokesman described the uk music download chart  compiled by the official charts company  as having been  a great success  since its launch.  it has provided a focus for the industry and has really driven interest in downloads among music fans   he said.
johnson announces june retirement former england captain martin johnson has announced he is to retire from rugby union at the end of the season.  johnson  who captained england to world cup glory in 2003  will play his final match in june. johnson won 84 england caps and quit test rugby at the start of 2004  just two months after leading sir clive woodward s team to victory in sydney. the 34-year-old leicester lock s final match will be his testimonial at twickenham on 4 june.  i m confident i have made the right decision to retire   said johnson.  i m sure there will be times next season when i ll wish i was out there playing for the tigers  but you know when the time is right to go and i feel this is the right time.  i feel physically that i could play for another season  but playing week in and week out in the premiership is a full-time occupation and i only want to be out there for the right reasons.  johnson will always be revered by england fans for captaining england to their dramatic world cup win against australia in sydney  but his list of achievements does not stop at that.  he is the only man to captain the lions twice and he also led england to a six nations grand slam. johnson also had huge success as captain of leicester  guiding the tigers to back to back heineken cup victories and several premiership titles. apart from his marvellous captaincy johnson was also one of the finest second rows to ever play the game. teak tough and physically intimidating  he ruled the rucks and mauls for the best part of a decade and was integral in england s rise to the top of the world game. his final appearance will be in his testimonial at twickenham  where he will lead a team against a side captained by new zealand winger jonah lomu. the all black is aiming to return to action after a kidney transplant and johnson expects it to be a memorable occasion.  this game against jonah will be a great way to end the season and end my career   said johnson. lomu  rugby union s first global superstar after his exploits in the 1995 world cup  said he was proud to be part of johnson s farewell.  we hold him in such high esteem   said lomu.  he is such a great leader and i am just honoured to be on the same pitch.
cyber crime booms in 2004 the last 12 months have seen a dramatic growth in almost every security threat that plague windows pcs.  the count of known viruses broke the 100 000 barrier and the number of new viruses grew by more than 50%. similarly phishing attempts  in which conmen try to trick people into handing over confidential data  are recording growth rates of more than 30% and attacks are becoming increasingly sophisticated. also on the increase are the number of networks of remotely controlled computers  called bot nets  used by malicious hackers and conmen to carry out many different cyber crimes.  one of the biggest changes of 2004 was the waning influence of the boy hackers keen to make a name by writing a fast-spreading virus  said kevin hogan  senior manager in symantec s security response group. although teenage virus writers will still play around with malicious code  said mr hogan  2004 saw a significant rise in criminal use of malicious programs. the financial incentives were driving criminal use of technology  he said. his comment was echoed by graham cluley  senior technology consultant from anti-virus firm sophos. mr cluley said:  when the commercial world gets involved  things really get nasty. virus writers and hackers will be looking to make a tidy sum.   in particular  phishing attacks  which typically use fake versions of bank websites to grab login details of customers  boomed during 2004. web portal lycos europe reported a 500% increase in the number of phishing e-mail messages it was catching. the anti-phishing working group reported that the number of phishing attacks against new targets was growing at a rate of 30% or more per month. those who fall victim to these attacks can find that their bank account has been cleaned out or that their good name has been ruined by someone stealing their identity. this change in the ranks of virus writers could mean the end of the mass-mailing virus which attempts to spread by tricking people into opening infected attachments on e-mail messages.  they are not an efficient way of spreading viruses   said mr hogan.  they are very noisy and they are not technically challenging.  the opening months of 2004 did see the appearance of the netsky  bagle and mydoom mass mailers  but since then more surreptitious viruses  or worms  have dominated.  mr hogan said worm writers were more interested in recruiting pcs to take part in  bot nets  that can be used to send out spam or to mount attacks on websites.  in september symantec released statistics which showed that the numbers of active  bot computers  rose from 2 000 to 30 000 per day. thanks to these  bot nets   spam continued to be a problem in 2004. anti-spam firms report that  in many cases  legitimate e-mail has shrunk to less than 30% of messages. part of the reason that these  bot nets  have become so prevalent  he said  was due to a big change in the way that many viruses were created. in the past many viruses  such as netsky  have been the work of an individual or group. by contrast  said mr hogan  the code for viruses such as gaobot  spybot and randex were commonly held and many groups work on them to produce new variants at the same time. the result is that now there are more than 3 000 variations of the spybot worm.  that s unprecedented   said mr hogan.  what makes it difficult is that they are all co-existing with each other and do not exist in an easy to understand chronology.   the emergence of the first proper virus for mobile phones was also seen in 2004.  in the past  threats to smart phones have been largely theoretical because the viruses created to cripple phones existed only in the laboratory rather than the wild. in june  the cabir virus was discovered that can hop from phone to phone using bluetooth short-range radio technology. also released this year was the mosquito game for symbian phones which surreptitiously sends messages to premium rate numbers  and in november the skulls trojan came to light which can cripple phones. on the positive side  finnish security firm f-secure said that 2004 was the best-ever year for the capture  arrest and sentencing of virus writers and criminally-minded hackers. in total  eight virus writers were arrested and some members of the so-called 29a virus writing group were sentenced. one high-profile arrest was that of german teenager sven jaschen who confessed to be behind the netsky and sasser virus families. also shut down were the carderplanet and shadowcrew websites that were used to trade stolen credit card numbers.
bush to get  tough  on deficit us president george w bush has pledged to introduce a  tough  federal budget next february in a bid to halve the country s deficit in five years.  the us budget and its trade deficit are both deep in the red  helping to push the dollar to lows against the euro and fuelling fears about the economy. mr bush indicated there would be  strict discipline  on non-defence spending in the budget. the vow to cut the deficit had been one of his re-election declarations. the federal budget deficit hit a record $412bn (£211.6bn) in the 12 months to 30 september and $377bn in the previous year.   we will submit a budget that fits the times   mr bush said.  it will provide every tool and resource to the military  will protect the homeland  and meet other priorities of the government.  the us has said it is committed to a strong dollar. but the dollar s weakness has hit european and asian exporters and lead to calls for us intervention to boost the currency. mr bush  however  has said the best way to halt the dollar s slide is to deal with the us deficit.  it s a budget that i think will send the right signal to the financial markets and to those concerned about our short-term deficits   mr bush added.  as well  we ve got to deal with the long-term deficit issues.
terror suspects face house arrest uk citizens suspected of involvement in terrorism could face house arrest as part of a series of new measures outlined by the home secretary.  it comes after law lords ruled that the detention of 12 foreign terror suspects without trial breached human rights. charles clarke s planned  control orders  mean anyone suspected of being involved in terrorism could be subject to house arrest  curfews or tagging. the law society dubbed mr clarke s new proposals an  abuse of power . deals are already being sought to deport some of the foreign detainees who are mainly held in belmarsh prison in london under the current laws introduced after the us terror attacks on 11 september 2001. mr clarke said efforts would continue to deport them to their countries of origin algeria  tunisia  egypt and jordan without them facing torture or death.  under the proposed changes - prompted by the house of lords ruling - the home secretary could order british citizens or foreign suspects who could not be deported  to face house arrest or other measures such as restrictions on their movements or limits on their use of telephones and the internet.  british citizens are being included in the changes after the law lords said the current powers were discriminatory because they could only be used on foreign suspects. mr clarke also said intelligence reports showed some british nationals were now playing a more significant role in terror threats. human rights lawyer clive stafford-smith said the plans were a  further abuse of human rights in britain .  mr clarke said prosecutions were the government s first preference and promised the powers would only be used in  serious  cases  with independent scrutiny from judges.  he told mps:  there remains a public emergency threatening the life of the nation.  he accepted the law lords  ruling but argued detention powers had helped prevent attacks and deter terrorists. the current detainees would not be freed until the new powers were in place as they were still considered a national security threat  he told mps.  there have been calls for the rules for wire-tap and intercept evidence to be allowed to be used in courts but mr clarke refused to back that change.  he said intercept evidence was only a small part of the case against the men and some of it could not be used because it could put sources  lives at risk. most of the terror suspects are being held indefinitely at belmarsh prison  in london. conservative shadow home secretary david davis was worried about extending special powers to cover british citizens. he warned:  throughout history  internment has generally backfired because of the resentment it creates.  so unless the process is clearly just  the home secretary could find himself confining one known terrorist only to recruit 10 unknown terrorists.  he suggested changing the law to let security-cleared judges view evidence gathered by phone-tapping could allow more terror cases to come to court.  liberal democrat spokesman mark oaten also backed use of wire-tap evidence. he said the standard of proof for the new powers would have to be  very high indeed  and he asked whether ministers had looked at measures which fitted with human rights laws. shami chakrabarti  from human rights group liberty  joined calls for intercept evidence to be allowed in trials. she said:  adherence to the rule of law should not be a game of cat and mouse. the government should not swap one human rights  opt out  for another.
trade gap narrows as exports rise the uk s trade gap narrowed in november  helped by a 7.5% rise in exports outside the european union.  according to the office for national statistics  the difference between what the uk exported and imported was £3.1bn ($5.8bn)  down from october s £3.6bn. overall uk exports - including both goods and services - rose by more than 3.2% to £24.8bn  although total imports rose again to a new record of £27.9bn. the deficit for goods alone was £4.6bn  down from october s £5bn. during november the uk exported £16.9bn worth of goods  but imported £21.5bn. the cumulative deficit for the first eleven months of 2004 now stands at £36.3bn  £4.5bn higher than the same period in 2003.  november saw an improvement in export levels to both the european union and the rest of the world  the office for national statistics (ons) said. eu exports rose 2%  fuelled by an increase in sales of chemicals. non-eu exports shot up 7.5%  with growth seen across a range of manufacturing sectors including cars  consumer durables and chemicals. the export boost offset a 1% rise in imports. non-eu imports rose 3%  but the growth in goods entering the uk from the eu slowed to 0.5%.  the uk s deficit with the eu fell to £1.9bn from £2.1bn  while its non-eu shortfall dropped to £2.7bn from £2.9bn in october.  the country s surplus on trade-in-services remained steady at £1.5bn for the fifth month in a row. paul dales  uk economist for capital economics  said the figures represented an improvement on recent months. however  he stressed that the long-term prognosis for exports was still uncertain.  the figures are a lot better than expected but the trend still remains poor   he said.  there have been some very encouraging signs that the uk export recovery is starting to take hold. but there is a danger that this could be held back by the ongoing weakness of domestic demand on the continent.
uk firms  embracing e-commerce  uk firms are embracing internet trading opportunities as never before  e-commerce minister mike o brien says.  a government-commissioned study ranked the uk third in its world index of use of information and communication technology (ict). the report suggests 69% of uk firms are now using broadband and that 30% of micro businesses are trading online. mr o brien said uk businesses were sprinting forward in ict use  but that there were more challenges ahead. the report  carried out independently by consultants booz allen hamilton and hi europe  placed the uk third behind sweden and ireland for business use of ict.  it showed british business brought greater maturity to their ict use  by using broadband in increased numbers  bringing ict into their business plans and using new technologies such as voice activated programmes and desktop video conferences. mr o brien said:  the increase in the proportion of business connected by broadband shows that uk companies are embracing the opportunities that ict can bring.  it is particularly encouraging to see that small businesses are beginning to narrow the digital divide that appeared to have opened up in recent years.  the government would play its part in  cultivating an environment where information and communication technologies can flourish   mr o brien said. the  clear message  the report sends is that effective use of ict can bring real improvements in business performance for all business.   however  we are not at the finishing line yet and many challenges remain if the uk is to reach its aim of becoming a world-leading e-economy   he added. the international benchmarking study was based on 8 000 telephone interviews with businesses  of which more than 2 700 were uk businesses. it is the eighth in a series of examining the adoption and deployment of ict in the world s most industrialised nations.
iranian mps threaten mobile deal turkey s biggest private mobile firm could bail out of a $3bn ($1.6bn) deal to build a network in iran after mps there slashed its stake in the project.  conservatives in parliament say turkcell s stake in irancell  the new network  should be cut from 70% to 49%. they have already given themselves a veto over all foreign investment deals  following allegations about turkish firms  involvement in israel. turkcell now says it may give up on the deal altogether.  iran currently has only one heavily congested mobile network  with long waiting lists for new subscribers. turkcell signed a contract for the new network in september. the new operator planned to offer subscriptions for about $180  well below the existing firm s $500 price tag. but a parliamentary commission has now ruled that turkcell s 70% controlling stake is too high. they say that turkcell is a security risk because of alleged business ties with israel. parliament as a whole - dominated by religious conservatives - will vote on the ruling on tuesday.  turkcell said the ruling would  make more difficult... turkcell s financial consolidation of irancell  because its stake would be reduced to less than 50%.  if management control and financial consolidation of irancell cannot be achieved... the realisation of the project will become risky   it warned in a statement. the firm has refused to comment on whether it has business dealings in israel  although like almost all gsm operators worldwide it has an interconnection deal with israeli networks so that its customers can use their phones there. the two countries strengthened ties in both defence and economic issues in 2004. israeli industry minister ehud olmert was reported in june to have attended a meeting between ruhi dogusoy  turkcell s chief operating officer  and executives from israeli telecoms firms. telecoms is one of two areas specifically targeted by the new veto law on foreign investments  passed earlier in september. the other is airports  a source of controversy after the army closed tehran s new imam khomeini international airport on its opening day in may 2004. again  the allegation was that the part-turkish tav consortium which built and ran it had links with israel.
qwest may spark mci bidding war us phone company qwest has said it will table a new offer for mci after losing out to larger rival verizon  setting the scene for a possible bidding war.  mci accepted a $6.75bn (£3.6bn) buyout from telecoms giant verizon on monday  rejecting a higher offer from qwest. qwest chairman richard notebaert sent a letter to mci s board on thursday saying that it plans to submit a new offer after examining verizon s bid. formerly known as worldcom  mci is a long-distance and corporate phone firm. snapping up mci would give the buyer access to a global telecommunications network and a large number of business-based subscribers. shares of mci were up more than 4% in electronic trading after the close of new york markets.  qwest said on wednesday that mci had rejected a deal worth $8bn.  we would like to advise you that once we have completed our review of the verizon merger agreement  we do intend to submit a modified offer to acquire mci   the letter from qwest said. verizon s offer is made up of cash  shares and dividends  and a number of investors have said that it undervalues mci. verizon plans to swap 0.41 of its shares and $1.50 in cash for each mci share  as well as offering special dividends of $4.50 a share. both company boards have backed the deal  but regulators will still need to give their approval. as well as trying to lure investors with the promise of better returns  qwest also reckons that its offer will face less regulatory scrutiny than verizon s.  the takeover would be the fifth billion-dollar telecoms deal since october as companies look to cut costs and boost client bases. earlier this month  sbc communications agreed to buy its former parent and phone trailblazer at&t for about $16bn. there may be concerns other than cash  however  especially as mci only emerged from bankruptcy protection last april. verizon is far bigger than qwest  has fewer debts and has built a successful mobile division. also  mci  while trading under the name worldcom  became the biggest corporate bankruptcy in us history after admitting that it illegally booked expenses and inflated profits. former worldcom boss bernie ebbers is currently standing trial  accused of overseeing an $11bn fraud. qwest  meanwhile  had to pay the securities and exchange commission $250m in october to settle charges that it massaged earnings to keep wall street happy.
unclear future for striker baros liverpool forward milan baros is uncertain whether he remains part of boss rafa benitez s plans after being dropped for the carling cup final.  baros  who is liverpool s leading scorer this season  denied reports of a row with benitez but claims he is mystified at being left on the bench. he told czech newspaper daily sport:  i don t know why i didn t play on sunday. i didn t argue with anybody.  i was disappointed but i am not thinking of leaving right now.  the czech international came on as a substitute after 74 minutes but could not prevent his side losing 3-2 to chelsea after extra-time.  baros denied suggestions he wanted to leave the millennium stadium before the match upon learning of his omission from the starting line-up. but his admission that he  guessed something like this was going to happen on saturday   will do little to quell claims of a falling-out with benitez. and although baros insisted thoughts of quitting anfield are  not in my mind right now   he admitted  everything is possible .
mrs howard gets key election role michael howard s ex-model wife  sandra  is to play a leading role in the conservative election campaign.  mrs howard will make solo visits to target seats as well as accompanying her husband on his helicopter campaign trail criss-crossing the country. mr howard will host a news conference at the party s london hq every morning  tory co-chairman liam fox said.  we want michael to be as accessible as possible   mr fox said  adding that the party was not afraid of scrutiny.  the tory leader wanted to meet as many ordinary members of the public  mr fox said. tony blair has also said he is intending to get out and talk to as many people as possible during the election campaign. but labour campaign chiefs say there are no plans for mr blair to hold a daily news conference.  mr fox responded by accusing the prime minister of  hiding away from the scrutiny of london s media . the liberal democrats also say they are planning to hold daily news conferences with charles kennedy. on mrs howard s role  mr fox said:  sandra has already been campaigning with michael on a number of visits and has been undertaking short visits herself.  that pattern will continue. it s worked very well up until now.  mrs howard made her debut speech at the conservative party conference in bournemouth last october. she used her speech on the fringe to highlight the work of a drugs charity  addaction  which she supports. mrs howard has also appeared along side her husband on tv chat shows. during an interview on itv1 s this morning she said she often criticised her husband for not showing the side of him that she knows.
nortel in $300m profit revision telecoms equipment maker nortel networks has sharply revised downwards its profits for the 2003 fiscal year.  in a long-awaited filing  nortel said it had made $434m (£231m)  compared to the previously reported $732m. but the figures - revised after an audit which led to the sacking of the canadian firm s chief - showed revenue was about 4% higher than first thought. nortel shares  which have lost nearly 50% of their value since last year  climbed 1.46% in toronto on tuesday. nortel s head frank dunn and two other executives were fired in january last year after the company announced it had conducted the internal audit. securities and police authorities in both the us and canada are still conducting inquiries into the accounts.  nortel also issued new figures for the 2001-2002 period  which they had previously indicated had understated losses.  with the completion of our restatements we have a solid foundation on which to move forward with our business   said nortel president and chief executive bill owens.  the restatement has been a monumental task  both complex and demanding.  the company also said 12 senior executives - none of whom were involved directly in the accounting of the revised figures - have voluntarily agreed to repay to bonuses awarded in 2003 totalling $8.6m. nortel added:  these members of the core executive team share the board s deep disappointment over the circumstances that led to the restatement.
wenger handed summer war chest arsenal boss arsene wenger has been guaranteed transfer funds to boost his squad the summer.  the club s managing director  keith edelman  stressed that the development of their new £350m stadium had no affect on wenger s spending power.  the money is there. don t worry we ve got it   edelman told bbc sport.  hopefully  we ll spend it this summer and in the coming years. arsene attends all our board meetings and he knows our finances are very strong.   edelman added that it was pointless having a brand new stadium if the team did not match the surroundings.  its great to have nice  new surroundings  but if the team aren t performing on the pitch  then there isn t great respect in having a fabulous stadium   he said.  it s important that we had sufficient funds for our team in place  before we began on the stadium.
ukip s secret weapon  by any measure  new yorker dick morris is that thing americans love over everything else - a winner.  this is the man who  some pundits believe  was almost single-handedly responsible for bill clinton s sensational 1992 comeback victory. but morris is no ideologue. he has worked as election strategist for any number of republicans as well and  more recently  politicians from mexico to uruguay. now he is back in london as the uk independence party s not-so-secret electoral weapon after returning from the ukraine where he helped - you guessed it - opposition candidate viktor yushchenko. if there is one regular criticism levelled at morris  it is that he is too ready to switch allegiances. that he enjoys the game more than the politics.  so why britain and why ukip which  despite its recent eu election successes  is not likely to pull off a sensational victory in the looming general election. on this subject  morris appears almost evangelical.   i was on a cruise in the mediterranean and  coincidentally  so was ukip leader roger knapman.  i had just written a piece saying how the english channel was now wider than the atlantic which he liked and it went from there . but what is it about ukip that particularly attracts him  many might think it is simply another chance to practice his art  irrespective of the politics.  i think the greatest threat to democracy in the world is not terrorism but bureaucratism . a great soundbite  but a surprise coming from a new yorker post 11 september.  it is the growth of these bodies composed of experts who know better  who don t believe in letting democracy govern but believe in letting the correct solution be determined.  that s international bankers  the world trade organisation  the international monetary fund  the world bank and  primarily  the european union .  so he is out to help ukip take britain out of this organisation which he believes is unreformable and inherently undemocratic. and he is scathing of the tory party which he also appears to believe is unreformable.  the tory party is schizophrenic about europe. but until somebody says they are willing to leave the eu they can t possibly re-negotiate anything (as michael howard is pledged to do).  it s like walking into a liquor store with a gun to rob it and saying:  before i can proceed with the robbery i want to make clear i am not going to shoot anybody  . possibly a very american analogy  but another great soundbite.  the basic point is that the eu seeks political integration to move the entire nexus of decision making away from britain - and we oppose that and the tories cannot be trusted to oppose it .  so is ukip s job to destroy the tories  as former member robert kilroy-silk once notoriously declared   no. the aim of ukip is to withdraw from the eu and if it has any relation to the tories it is to stiffen the tories  spine on the issue by having a large enough ukip vote so that we move the tories in the direction they are refusing to move.   but it s not just to shift the tories. i think ukip had a huge amount to do with tony blair s decision to hold a referendum on the european constitution and i think it had a huge amount to do with his refusal to go into the euro . and  while we are on the subject of mr kilroy-silk  mr morris despatches him with another of his neat soundbites.  robert kilroy silk is not a team player - it is a good idea our party stands for some thing and not some one .  so what is the big plan for the general election. how will he achieve the breakthrough   look  we are not going to be forming the next government   he said. neither does ukip have to fight every seat. as with the 2004 us presidential election  he says  the outcome will be decided by a small number of swing seats - just as he believes it will in britain. so  with limited resources  the aim is to target those seats and end the day with a significant group in the commons. he also believes it is possible the internet could have a big part in the poll.  the internet was a decisive factor in the 2004 presidential election - through blogs (individuals posting their views in online diaries). people just did it .  anything can happen in the next general election. there is an inherent instability at the moment.  labour and the tories have drawn the consensus so tightly and to the left there is room for another voice .  that might  he suggests  lead to a hung parliament with ukip and others holding the balance of power. it is a huge task  surely. but there is undoubtedly a sense that the next general election may indeed produce some surprises - even while most still believe it is labour s for the taking. ukip s performance in last year s european elections was just such a shocker and showed that mr morris may have a point about the new consensus. and after all  he has a reputation to sustain.
japanese mogul arrested for fraud one of japan s best-known businessmen was arrested on thursday on charges of falsifying shareholder information and selling shares based on the false data.  yoshiaki tsutsumi was once ranked as the world s richest man and ran a business spanning hotels  railways  construction and a baseball team. his is the latest in a series of arrests of top executives in japan over business scandals. he was taken away in a van outside one of his prince hotels in tokyo.  there was a time when mr tsutsumi seemed untouchable. inheriting a large property business from his father in the 1960s  he became one of japan s most powerful industrialists  with close connections to many of the country s leading politicians. he used his wealth and influence to bring the winter olympic games to nagano in 1998. but last year  he was forced to resign from all the posts he held in his business empire  after being accused of falsifying the share-ownership structure of seibu railways  one of his companies. under japanese stock market rules  no listed company can be more than 80% owned by its 10 largest shareholders. now mr tsutsumi faces criminal charges and the possibility of a prison sentence because he made it look as if the 10 biggest shareholders owned less than this amount. seibu railways has been delisted from the stock exchange  its share value has plunged and it is the target of a takeover bid.  mr tsutsumi s fall from grace follows the arrests of several other top executives in japan as the authorities try to curb the murky business practices which were once widespread in japanese companies. his determination to stay at the top at all costs may have had its roots in his childhood. the illegitimate third son of a rich father  who made his money buying up property as japan rebuilt after world war ii  he has described the demands his father made.  i felt enormous pressure when i dined with him and it was nothing but pain   tsutsumi told a weekly magazine in 1987.  he scolded me for pouring too much soy sauce or told me fruit was not for children. he didn t let me use the silk futon  saying it s a luxury.  there have been corporate governance issues at some other japanese companies too. last year  twelve managers from mitsubishi motors were charged with covering up safety defects in their vehicles and three executives from japan s troubled ufj bank were charged with concealing the extent of the bank s bad loans.
uk coal plunges into deeper loss shares in uk coal have fallen after the mining group reported losses had deepened to £51.6m in 2004 from £1.2m.  the uk s biggest coal producer blamed geological problems  industrial action and  operating flaws  at its deep mines for its worsening fortunes. the south yorkshire company  led by new chief executive gerry spindler  said it hoped to return to profit in 2006. in early trade on thursday  its shares were down 10% at 119 pence. uk coal said it was making  significant progress  in shaking up the business. it had introduced new wage structures  a new daily maintenance regime for machinery at its mines and methods to continue mining in adverse conditions. the company said these actions should  significantly uplift earnings . it expected 2005 to be a  transitional year  and to return to profitability in 2006.  the recent rise in coal prices has failed to benefit the company as most of its output had already been sold  it said. total production costs were £1.30 per gigajoule  uk coal said  but the average selling price was just £1.18 per gigajoule.  we have a long journey ahead to fix these issues. we continue to make progress and great strides have already been made   said mr spindler. uk coal operates 15 deep and surface mines across nottinghamshire  derbyshire  leicestershire  yorkshire  the west midlands  northumberland and durham.
iraqi voters turn to economic issues beyond the desperate security situation in iraq lies an economy in tatters.  a vicious cycle of unemployment  poor social services and poverty has been made worse by a lack of investment. so there is much hope that an elected government will break the deadlock.  first rule of law  then the economy   says radwan hadi  deputy managing director of aberdeen-based oil and gas consultancy blackwatch petroleum services  which entered iraq in 2003. mr hadi s view about what the new government s priorities should be is shared by many iraqis. the economy has become the second-most dominant issue for many political parties ahead of sunday s election  according to bristol university political scientist anne alexander  who is working on a project that looks at governance and security in post-war iraq.  job creation ranks high both on election manifestos and on the iraqi people s wish list. nobody knows exactly how many iraqis are out of work  but it is clear that the situation is dire.  estimates of iraq s unemployment rate vary  but we estimate it to be between 30-40%   the washington-based independent think-tank the brookings institution says in its iraq index. but some progress has been made  largely thanks to the country s oil revenues which have exceeded $22bn since june 2003.  iraq s infrastructure is on the mend  with notable improvements having been made in areas such as electricity supply  irrigation  telephone networks and the re-opening of hospitals. but serious problems remain and the growing divide between haves and have-nots is angering voters. one iraqi woman told ms alexander about her frustration as she watched tv adverts for private hospitals soon after having failed to track down basic medicines from baghdad s pharmacies. observes mr hadi:  the economy at present marks a big divide; the rich get richer  the poor get poorer.  an indication of this can be seen in the world of finance where  in contrast with the daily plight of ordinary people  19 private banks operate  only one of which is run in accordance with islamic banking principles. hopes are high for the future of finance  so foreign banks have been buying into the sector. national bank of kuwait has bought a majority stake in credit bank of iraq  the jordanian investment bank export & finance bank has bought 49% of national bank of iraq.  foreign firms also hope to cash in on the reconstruction effort. bechtel s efforts to rebuild schools and restore power have attracted controversy as well as boosting its bottom line while halliburton has enjoyed a wealth of military contracts. but the involvement of foreign firms in the health and banking sectors and beyond sits uneasily with many iraqis who are accustomed to the state taking responsibility for functions that are essential to making society work  observes ms alexander.  it is seen as a selling off of iraq s assets and bringing in multinationals at the expense of iraqi businesses and iraqi workers   she says. consequently  the transitional government has been forced to backtrack in recent months over its proposal to allow 100% foreign ownership of iraqi assets  she explains. in the west  it is easy to forget that the otherwise brutal baathist regime used to look after the majority of iraq s citizens rather well in terms of job creation  social security and healthcare. opinion polls suggest that  people still want the state to take a leading role in providing these things   ms alexander says.  yet in some areas of the economy  investment from abroad is still warmly welcomed  insists mr hadi  an iraqi who left the country three decades ago.  i think the private sector will evolve incredibly fast   mr hadi says.  iraq s vast natural resources can support any magnitude of economic growth.   many foreign companies say they are keen to get in on the act  yet few are actually entering the country in any meaningful way. but there are exceptions. mr hadi s blackwatch is just one of many small operators preparing for a much bigger future. blackwatch s baghdad-based affiliate falcon group has dozens of people working for it across the country in kirkuk and baghdad  and its engineers and geo-scientists work with the iraqi oil ministry to hammer out technology transfer issues  mr hadi points out.  these guys are trying to work. the iraqi business people will do business at all times.  life goes on in iraq  the people take responsibility  they want to live normal lives.
kilroy-silk quits  shameful  ukip ex-chat show host robert kilroy-silk has quit the uk independence party and accused it of betraying its supporters.  the mep said he was ashamed to have joined the party  which he labelled as a  joke . he plans to stand in the next general election but refused to confirm he is setting up a new political party called veritas - latin for truth. ukip leader roger knapman said he would  break open the champagne   adding:  it was nice knowing him  now  goodbye .  however  he did say the ex-chat show host had been  quite useful initially .  he has remarkable ability to influence people but  sadly  after the (european) election it became clear that he was more interested in the robert kilroy-silk party than the uk independence party so it was nice knowing him  now  goodbye    mr knapman told bbc radio 4 s today programme. mr knapman rejected the idea mr kilroy-silk posed a threat to ukip and queried why he had failed to confirm rumours he was starting a new political party.  mr kilroy-silk explained his reasons to his east midlands constituents at a meeting in hinckley  leicestershire. his decision came as ukip officials began a process which could have triggered mr kilroy-silk s expulsion. it marks the end of his membership of ukip after just nine months. it began with a flood of publicity which helped ukip into third place in last june s european elections but became dominated by rancour as he tried to take over the party leadership.  mr kilroy-silk accused his fellow ukip meps of being content with growing fat  sitting on their backsides  in brussels. he told bbc news 24:  i tried to change the party  i nagged all the way through the summer to do things  to get moving because i thought it was criminal what they were doing  it was a betrayal.  mr kilroy-silk also told sky news there was  masses of support  for him to form a new party - something he has yet to confirm will happen.  ukip won 12 seats and 16.1% of the vote at the european elections on the back of its call for the uk to leave the european union in his speech  mr kilroy-silk says the result offered ukip an  amazing opportunity  but the party s leadership had done nothing and  gone awol . there were no policies  no energy  no vision and no spokespeople  he said.  the party is going nowhere and i m embarrassed with its allies in europe and i m ashamed to be a member of the party   said mr kilroy-silk.  he said his conviction in britain s right to govern itself had not changed. he would continue that campaign outside ukip when he contested the general election in an east midlands constituency. reports of his new party plans have prompted a formal complaint to ukip s disciplinary committee for bringing the party into  disrepute . on thursday  the party challenged mr kilroy-silk to stand down as an mep so voters can get a genuine ukip candidate.
microsoft plans  safer id  system microsoft is planning to make windows and internet explorer more secure by including software to give people more control over personal information.   info cards  will help people manage personal details on their pcs to make online services safer  said microsoft. microsoft s two previous programs  passport and hailstorm  aimed to protect users but were criticised. id fraud is one of the uk s fastest-growing crimes  with criminals netting an estimated £1.3bn last year. a quarter of uk adults has either had their id stolen  via hi-tech or other means  or knows someone who has  a recent report by which  magazine found.  microsoft is developing a new version of internet explorer browser and its operating system  windows  which has been code-named longhorn. michael stephenson  director in microsoft s windows server division  would not confirm however whether the new info cards id system will be built into the current windows xp version or longhorn.   we re trying to make the end-user experience as simple as possible   mr stephenson said. the system would differ from its previous attempts to make online transactions more secure  said microsoft. while passport and hailstorm stored user information centrally on the net  the latest system will store data on a user s pc.  it s going to put control of digital ids into the hands of an end-user  the end-user will be in full control   said mr stephenson.  hailstorm was criticised by privacy campaigners for putting too much sensitive information into the hands of a single company. passport provides a single log-in for more than one website and stores basic personal information. but its popularity suffered after security scares. up to 200 million passport accounts were left vulnerable to online theft and malicious hackers after a flaw in the system was exploited in 2003. online auction site  ebay  stopped supporting it in january 2005. although the flaw was fixed  microsoft has come under regular criticism for the number of security loopholes in internet explorer. last year  it released a major security update for windows  service pack 2  to combat some of the security concerns. longhorn is due to be released commercially in late 2006  but an updated version of internet explorer is due for release later this year.
super union  merger plan touted two of britain s big trade unions could merge to form a  super union  of two million members.  the move by amicus and the transport and general workers union (tgwu) would be a seen as a bid to carry more weight with ministers and employers. amicus has 1.2 million members and the tgwu has 800 000. any merger would have to be approved by the unions  executives and their membership. it is understood meetings will be held on wednesday about the proposal. along with the gmb and unison  the tgwu and amicus worked closely together in the last year to hammer out a 56-point deal with labour s leadership over equality at work  holidays and pensions - the warwick agreement. both unions are remaining tight-lipped about the merger rumours  but one insider pointed out to the bbc news website that  nobody is denying suggestions a merger could be on the agenda  when the two unions  executives hold their meetings on wednesday. amicus s executive was due to meet in any case although the tgwu is holding specially scheduled talks.
mobile music challenges  ipod age  nokia and microsoft have agreed a deal to work on delivery of music to handsets  while sony ericsson has unveiled its phone walkman and motorola is working on an itunes phone.  can mobile phones replace the mp3 player in your pocket  the music download market has been growing steadily since record firms embraced digital distribution. ease of use  relative low price and increased access to broadband has helped drive the phenomenal growth of mp3 players.  full-length music downloads on mobile phones have not taken off so quickly - held back by technical challenges as well as issues over music availability. but the mobile music industry is confident that the days of dedicated mp3 players are numbered.  gilles babinet  chief executive of mobile music firm musiwave  said:  music downloads on mobiles have the potential to be the biggest-ever medium for music.   musiwave provides downloading infrastructure for the mobile phone market and mr babinet said the industry was enjoying  definite momentum.  but there are hurdles to overcome. mobile phones offer limited storage for music - certainly nothing to rival apple s 60gb ipod. but the first mobile phones with hard disk players will be on the market soon and the current generation of mobiles using flash technology can store up to one gigabyte of music - enough for 250 songs.  we are working in the hard disk area and we will be bringing out exciting devices   jonas guest  vice president for entertainment at nokia  told the bbc news website. but will mobiles become mere storage devices   one of the problems we could have is that mobiles are used just for storage and playback while pcs are used for downloading   said mr babinet   we don t want people to cast aside their pcs - we want mobile users to hook up into the existing ecosystems   explained mr guest.  you must enable people to transfer music from a pc to a handset and vice versa.   one of the key elements of the nokia and microsoft deal is the agreed ability to transfer songs between a handset and a pc. microsoft will adopt open standards allowing music to cross boundaries for the first time. songs can be downloaded on pc or mobile and transferred between the platforms.  the line between online and wireless is going to blur   predicted ted cohen  senior vice president of digital development and distribution at emi. he said:  the market is more regional in its maturity. in asia it is beyond belief.  the majority of our digital revenues in asia comes from mobiles. in north america it is fixed line while there is equilibrium in europe.   emi currently offers its entire 200 000 download catalogue for use by both by pcs and mobile phones. mr cohen said:  it s going to be just as important to connect through 3g or wireless as it is through your pc.  we want music to be a continuum.  the seamless experience of mobiles and pc downloads is approaching  he predicted. mr babinet said the mobile phone had a number of advantages over pcs which would see it become the focus for music downloading in the future.  getting music from your pc onto a device is not an easy experience. you have to switch the pc on  load the operating system  load the program  buy the music  download the music  and then transfer the music.  all of these steps can be done in one step on a mobile phone.  he said the mobile phone s billing system would make it easier for teenagers to embrace downloads  because pre-paid cards were already accepted by the age group.   certainly  we have a problem with battery  memory and bandwidth. but it s not about the current status. it s about the potential.  you will have all of your music on your mobile.  all three men said that the social interaction of mobile music would drive the market. mr cohen said:  i can send you the song and it is either billed to me or i send it to you and if you listen to it and want to keep  it is billed to you.  it s a social phenomenon.  mr babinet said:  today you use radio and tv to discover music. tomorrow you will discover and consume music via one device - the mobile.
world leaders gather to face uncertainty more than 2 000 business and political leaders from around the globe are arriving in the swiss mountain resort davos for the annual world economic forum (wef). for five days  they will discuss issues ranging from china s economic power to iraq s future after this sunday s elections. uk prime minister tony blair and south african president thabo mbeki are among the more than 20 government leaders and heads of state leaders attending the meeting. unlike previous years  protests against the wef are expected to be muted. anti-globalisation campaigners have called off a demonstration planned for the weekend.  the brazilian city of porto alegre will host the rival world social forum  timed to run in parallel with the wef s ritzier event in davos.  the organisers of the brazilian gathering  which brings together thousands of campaigners against globalisation  for fair trade  and many other causes  have promised to set an alternative agenda to that of the swiss summit. however  many of the issues discussed in porto alegre are davos talking points as well.  global warming  features particularly high. wef participants are being asked to offset the carbon emissions they cause by travelling to the event. davos itself is in deep frost. the snow is piled high across the mountain village  and at night the wind chill takes temperatures down to minus 20c and less.  ultimately  the forum will be dominated by business issues - from outsourcing to corporate leadership - with bosses of more than a fifth of the world s 500 largest companies scheduled to attend.  but much of the media focus will be on the political leaders coming to davos  not least because the agenda of this year s forum seems to lack an overarching theme.  taking responsibility for tough choices  is this year s official talking point  hinting at a welter of knotty problems. one thing seems sure  though: transatlantic disagreements over how to deal with iran  iraq and china are set to dominate discussions. pointedly  only one senior official from president bush s new administration is scheduled to attend. the us government may still make a conciliatory gesture  just as happened a year ago when vice president dick cheney made a surprise appearance in davos.  ukraine s new president  viktor yushchenko  is to speak  just days after his inauguration  an event that crowned the civil protests against the rigged first election that had tried to keep him from power.  the european union s top leaders  among them german chancellor gerhard schroeder and european commission president manuel barosso  will be here too. mr blair will formally open the proceedings  although his speech will be pre-empted by french president jacques chirac  who announced his attendance at the last minute and secured a slot for a  special message  two hours before mr blair speaks. the organisers also hope that the new palestinian leader  mahmoud abbas  will use the opportunity for talks with at least one of the three israeli deputy prime ministers coming to the event  a list that includes shimon peres. davos fans still hark back to 1994  when talks between yassir arafat and mr peres came close to a peace deal. mr blair s appearance will be keenly watched too  as political observers in the uk claim it is a calculated snub against political rival chancellor gordon brown  who was supposed to lead the uk government delegation.  microsoft founder bill gates  the world s richest man and a regular at davos  will focus on campaigning for good causes  though business interests will not be wholly absent either. having already donated billions of dollars to the fight against aids and malaria  mr gates will call on world leaders to support a global vaccination campaign to protect children in developing countries from easily preventable diseases. on tuesday  mr gates pledged $750m (£400m) of his own money to support the cause. mr gates  company  software giant microsoft  also hopes to use davos to shore up its defences against open source software like linux  which threaten microsoft s near monopoly on computer desktops. mr gates is said to be trying to arrange a meeting with brazil s president lula da silva. the brazilian government has plans to switch all government computers from microsoft to linux. at davos  global problem solving and networking are never far apart.
microsoft seeking spyware trojan microsoft is investigating a trojan program that attempts to switch off the firm s anti-spyware software.  the spyware tool was only released by microsoft in the last few weeks and has been downloaded by six million people. stephen toulouse  a security manager at microsoft  said the malicious program was called bankash-a trojan and was being sent as an e-mail attachment. microsoft said it did not believe the program was widespread and recommended users to use an anti-virus program. the program attempts to disable or delete microsoft s anti-spyware tool and suppress warning messages given to users.  it may also try to steal online banking passwords or other personal information by tracking users  keystrokes.  microsoft said in a statement it is investigating what it called a criminal attack on its software. earlier this week  microsoft said it would buy anti-virus software maker sybari software to improve its security in its windows and e-mail software. microsoft has said it plans to offer its own paid-for anti-virus software but it has not yet set a date for its release. the anti-spyware program being targeted is currently only in beta form and aims to help users find and remove spyware - programs which monitor internet use  causes advert pop-ups and slow a pc s performance.
argentina closes $102.6bn debt swap argentina is set to close its $102.6bn (£53.51bn) debt restructuring offer for bondholders later on friday  with the government hopeful that most creditors will accept the deal.  the estimated loss to bondholders is up to 70% of the original value of the bonds  yet the majority are expected to accept the government s offer. argentina defaulted on its debt three years ago  the biggest sovereign default in modern history. yesterday argentina s economy minister  roberto lavagna  said that he estimated that the results of the restructuring would be ready around next thursday (3 march). argentina s president  nestor kirchner  said on friday:  a year ago when we started the swap (negotiations)  they told us we were crazy  that we were irrational.  but he added that his government was close to achieving:  the best debt renegotiation in history.  the country has been in default on the $102.6bn - based on an original debt of $81.8bn plus interest - for the past three years. if the offer does not go ahead  international lawsuits on behalf of aggrieved investors could follow but analysts are optimistic that it will go through  despite the tough terms for bondholders. about 70% to 80% of bondholders are expected to accept the terms of the offer. by 18 february  creditors holding $41bn - or 40% of the total debt - had accepted the offer. sorting out its debt would enhance the country s credibility on international markets and enable it to attract more foreign investment. of argentina s bondholders  38.4% reside in argentina  15.6% in italy  10.3% in switzerland  9.1% in the united states  5.1% in germany and 3.1% in japan. investors in the uk  holland and luxembourg have about 1% each and the remainder were not broken down by country. the deal is likely to be taken up most enthusiastically by domestic investors  who will benefit if argentina s economy becomes more stable.
security papers  found in street  an inquiry is under way after files containing security details about the pakistani president s visit to london were found by a member of the public.  the files are believed to contain detailed security arrangements for gen pervez musharraf s visit this week  including police codes. scotland yard said the policing operation had been reviewed. a spokesman said president musharraf s safety had not been compromised  as the papers had been handed in promptly.  we cannot discuss who was responsible for the documents  only that they contained the policing arrangements for the official visit   said the spokesman.  the papers are believed to have been found by a member of the public in a street in mayfair and given to the mirror newspaper. the police spokesman said the newspaper handed the report over on monday. the force s directorate of professional standards is investigating the circumstances surrounding the loss of the documents  he said. gen musharraf held talks with tony blair on monday. he arrived in britain on sunday night after flying from the united states  where he met president george w bush. he is due to visit the pakistani community in manchester on tuesday afternoon.
gm issues 2005 profits warning general motors has warned that it expects earnings this year be lower than in 2004.  the world s biggest car maker is grappling with losses in its european business  and weak us sales. gm said higher healthcare costs in north america  and lower profits at its financial services subsidiary would hurt its performance in 2005. gm said it expects to meet its 2004 earnings targets  despite a tough competitive environment .  gm  whose brands include buick  cadillac and chevrolet in the us and opel  saab and vauxhall in europe  is due to reveal 2004 earnings on 19 january.  it said it would deliver a shareholder payout of $6.0-$6.5 per share this year  as promised  but that next year s earnings per share would be lower  at between $4.0-$5.0.  we re following a roadmap that we believe will deliver strong results   said gm chief executive rick waggoner. gm said it was expecting  reduced financial losses  in europe in 2005. it is in the midst of cutting 12 000 jobs - one fifth of the european total - in a bid to cut costs. the biggest job losses are in germany. its vehicle businesses have gained market share in three out of four regions in 2004  achieving record profitability in asia pacific and returning to profit in latin america  the middle east and africa. the car maker has diversified into financial services  and is extending the reach of general motors acceptance corp (gmac)  which has said it may enter the home loans market. gmac has been a strong contributor to profits in 2004 but gm said it will do less well this year  delivering net income of $2.5bn.  attaining earnings of $10 a share remains gm s goal   the company said  adding it believes it can achieve this in 2007.
edwards tips idowu for euro gold world outdoor triple jump record holder and bbc pundit jonathan edwards believes phillips idowu can take gold at the european indoor championships.  idowu landed 17.30m at the british trials in sheffield last month to lead the world triple jump rankings.  it s all down to him  but if he jumps as well as he did in sheffield he could win the gold medal   said edwards.  his ability is undoubted but all his best performances seem to happen in domestic meetings.   idowu made his breakthrough five years ago but so far has only a commonwealth silver medal to his name. edwards himself kept idowu off top spot at the manchester games. but he believes the european indoors in madrid represent a chance for the 26-year-old to prove his credentials as britain s top triple jumper.  he has to start producing at international level and here is the beginning   said edwards.  phillips still needs to be much more consistent. i m sure a victory in madrid will build up his confidence and self-belief that he can be best in the world.  the qualifying round of the men s triple jump in madrid takes place on friday with the final scheduled for saturday. olympic champion christian olsson will not be taking part as he is out for the entire indoor season with an ankle injury.
web logs aid disaster recovery some of the most vivid descriptions of the devastation in southern asia are on the internet - in the form of web logs or blogs.  bloggers have been offering snapshots of information from around the region and are also providing some useful information for those who want to help. indian writer rohit gupta edits a group blog called dogs without borders. when he created it  the site was supposed to be a forum to discuss relations between india and pakistan. but in the wake of sunday s tsunami  mr gupta and his fellow bloggers switched gears.  they wanted to blog the tsunami and its aftermath. one sri lankan blogger in the group goes by the online name morquendi. with internet service disrupted by the tsunami  morquendi started sending sms text messages via cell phone from the affected areas of sri lanka.  we started publishing these smses   says mr gupta.   morquendi was describing scenes like 1 600 bodies washed up on a shore  and people burying  and burying and burying them. people digging holes with their hands. and this was coming through an sms message.  we didn t have visual accounts on radio or on tv  or in the print media.  soon  thousands of web users around the world were logging on to read morquendi s first hand accounts. in one message  morquendi wrote about a sri lankan woman who was running home with a friend when the wave hit.  she was being swept away   morquendi s message read.  she grabbed a tree with one hand and her friend with the other. she says she watched the water pull her friend away.  mr gupta says the power of morquendi s text message blogs was palpable.  he was running around  looking for friends  burying bodies  carrying bodies   mr gupta says of morquendi.  i can t even begin to imagine the psychological state he was in when he was sending us reports  and doing the relief work at the same time.  he was caught between being a journalist and being a human being.   others blogs are helping to spread information about relief efforts. dina mehta is an indian blogger who s helping with the newly created south east asia earthquake and tsunami blog. she says the blog is not meant to be filled with first person accounts.  what we re doing is we re building a resource   she says.  anyone who says  ok  i want to come and do some work in india  volunteer in india  or in sri lanka or malaysia  this is the sort of one-stop-shop that they can come to for all sorts of resources - emergency help lines  relief agencies  aid agencies  contacts for them etc.   ms mehta also says she wishes that governments in the region would realise the power of blogs.  imagine if they had this resource available to them  if there was a disaster  how quickly you could funnel aid in  and get people to help   she says. bloggers in the united states are also getting involved. ramdhan yadav kotamaraja is originally from india  but now lives in dallas. mr kotamaraja wanted to help those affected by the tsunami by pooling money with concerned friends. so  he set up an online payment system on his website. then  says mr kotamaraja  the blogging world found out.  all my blogger friends started linking up my site  and i saw a lot of people other than my friends. i d say 70% of the donations came from people i don t know.  it s simply unbelievable to me  that people that i don t know will come and start donating.  news spreads quickly on weblogs  a phenomenon that helps bloggers expand their audience and scope. in sri lanka  blogger morquendi is recruiting others to help. one recruit calls himself heretic. in one of his latest posts  heretic asks:  have you ever seen fishing trawlers on the road  ever seen a bus inside a house   well   heretic writes   that was just the least affected areas - so you can just imagine - or can you   he concludes:  keep it blogged.   clark boyd is technology correspondent for the world  a bbc world service and wgbh-boston co-production.
ukip could sue veritas defectors the uk independence party could take legal action to unseat two london assembly members who defected to robert kilroy silk s veritas party.  damian hockney  now veritas deputy leader  and peter hulme-cross were elected in 2004 on the list system. the party argues the pair should give up their seats as they won them as ukip representatives  not as individuals. mr hockney said the law was clear that those elected on a list who quit their party should keep their seats. ukip chairman petrina holdsworth urged the men to step down from the gla in a letter.  she said:  the party has taken legal advice and it is clear that we could take legal proceedings against you which could result in the return of our seats and/or damages against you.  we would however like you to be given an opportunity to reflect on what you have done  to restore your own credibility with the electorate and return the seats to the party which won them fair and square at the last election.  mr hockney said the law worked in exactly the same way for the gla as it did for other electoral list systems.  the greater london act is clear that if someone resigns who was elected on a list  their party whip the seat belongs to them and not the party.  he said mr hulme-cross and himself had no intention of resigning and added that they felt that it was ukip who were not being true to the electorate. he accused the party of signing up to a deal with the tories in europe  rather than sticking to an independent stance. but the claim was denied by ukip spokesman  who said:  mr hockney s accusations are like his sense of political morals - empty.  veritas was formed by mr kilroy-silk earlier this month after he quit ukip following an unsuccessful bid to take over as leader.
video phone help for deaf people deaf people who prefer to communicate using british sign language (bsl) could soon be having their phone conversations relayed using webcams or videophones and an interpreter.  the video relay service is being piloted by the royal national institute for deaf people (rnid)  but the organisation says unless the service is provided at the same rate as voice calls it will be beyond most people s pockets. the rnid is urging telecoms regulator  ofcom  to reduce the cost of the service from the current £7.00 per minute and make it the same as ordinary phone calls. the service works by putting a deaf person in visual contact with a bsl interpreter via a webcam or video phone  and the interpreter then relays the deaf person s conversation using a telephone and translates the other person s response into sign language.  for many deaf people  especially those born deaf  bsl is a first and preferred means of communication.  until now  the only alternative has been to use textphones which means having to type a message and have it relayed via an operator.  in the past  i ve used textphones but they have problems   said robert currington who is taking part in the pilot.  i communicate in bsl; my written english is not very good and it takes me longer to think in english and type my message.   i sometimes find it difficult to understand the reply.  the rnid says the uk is lagging behind other countries which are already making relay services available at the cost of an ordinary phone call.  there are no technical or economic reasons for not providing equivalent access to services for deaf people   said rnid technology director  guido gybels.  in the us and australia  sign language relay services have already been made universally available at the same cost as a voice call.  by failing to provide and fund the video relay service for sign language users  the telecommunications sector is effectively discriminating against an already disenfranchised group.   ofcom says it has plans to review the services that telecoms companies are obliged to provide early next year. and new technology  including the video relay service  will be discussed with interested parties in the near future. but a spokesman said its powers were limited by legislation.  any proposals to extend existing arrangements to cover new services would be for government to consider   he said. mr currington  like many of the uk s 70 000 bsl users  will be hoping that a way can be found to make a cost-effective service available.  the relay service makes phone conversations a pleasure   he said.  i can show my emotions more easily in bsl in the same way hearing people express emotions through voice calls.
house prices suffer festive fall uk house prices fell 0.7% in december  according to figures from the office of the deputy prime minister.  nationally  house prices rose at an annual rate of 10.7% in december  less than the 13.7% rise the previous month. the average uk house price fell from £180 126 in november to £178 906  reflecting recent land registry figures confirming a slowdown in late 2004. all major uk regions  apart from northern ireland  experienced a fall in annual growth during december.  december is traditionally a quiet month for the housing market because of christmas celebrations. however  recent figures from the land registry - showing a big drop in sales between the last quarter of 2004 and the previous year - suggested the slowdown could be more than a seasonal blip. the volume of sales between october and december dropped by nearly a quarter from the same period in 2003  the land registry said. although both the office of the deputy prime minister (odpm) and the land registry figures point to a slowdown in the market  the most recent surveys from nationwide and halifax have indicated the market may be undergoing a revival. after registering falls at the back-end of 2004  halifax said house prices rose by 0.8% in january and nationwide reported a rise of 0.4% in the first month of the year.
charvis set to lose fitness bid flanker colin charvis is unlikely to play any part in wales  final two games of the six nations.  charvis has missed all three of wales  victories with an ankle injury and his recovery has been slower than expected.  he will not figure in the scotland game and is now thought unlikely to be ready for the final game   said wales physio mark davies. sonny parker is continuing to struggle with a neck injury  but hal luscombe should be fit for the murrayfield trip. centre parker has only a  slim chance  of being involved against the scots on 13 march  so luscombe s return to fitness after missing the france match with hamstring trouble is a timely boost.  said wales assistant coach scott johnson:  we re positive about hal and hope he ll be raring to go.  he comes back into the mix again  adds to the depth and gives us other options.   replacement hooker robin mcbryde remains a doubt after picking up knee ligament damage in paris last saturday.  we re getting that reviewed and we should know more by the end of the week how robin s looking   added johnson.  we re hopeful but it s too early to say at this stage.  steve jones from the dragons is likely to be drafted in if mcbryde fails to recover.
uk heading wrong way  says howard tony blair has had the chance to tackle the problems facing britain and has failed  michael howard has said.   britain is heading in the wrong direction   the conservative leader said in his new year message. mr blair s government was a  bossy  interfering government that takes decisions that should be made by individuals   he added. but labour s campaign spokesman fraser kemp responded:  britain is working  don t let the tories wreck it again . mr howard also paid tribute to the nation s character for its generous response to the asian quake disaster. the catastrophe was overshadowing the hopes for the future at this usually positive time of the year  mr howard said.   we watched the scenes of destruction with a sense of disbelief. the scale  the speed  the ferocity of what happened on boxing day is difficult to grasp.  yet britain s response has shone a light on our nation s character. the last week has shown that the warm  caring heart of britain beats as strong as ever.  he went on to reflect on the values that  most britons hold dear . looking ahead to the coming general election  he pledged to  turn these beliefs into reality  and set out the choices he says are facing britain.  how much tax do people want to pay  who will give taxpayers value for money  the clean hospitals and good  disciplined schools they want   who can be trusted to get a grip on the disorder on our streets and the chaos in our immigration system    mr blair has failed to tackle these problems  he claimed  saying he has the  wrong solution  to them.   the result is big government and higher taxes eroding incentives  undermining enterprise and denying people choice.  worst of all  it is a government that has wasted people s money and failed to tackle the problems families face today.  the tories  he said  can cut crime and improve public services without asking people to pay more taxes.  we can have progress without losing what makes britain great - its tolerance  the respect for the rule of law  the ability of everyone to fulfil their potential.  we simply need to change direction. the election will give britain the chance to change.  this is the record mr blair will have to defend in the coming months  he said  urging voters to hold him to account.  but labour spokesman mr kemp said:  it would be more appropriate for this message to come out on 1 april  not 1 january.   let us never forget that when michael howard was in government britain suffered mass unemployment  15% interest rates  record home repossessions  and the introduction of the poll tax.  with labour britain is working. rather than alluding to false promises michael howard should be starting 2005 with an apology to the british people for the misery that the government  of which he was a member  inflicted upon the country.
calder fears for scottish rugby former scotland international finlay calder fears civil war at the sru could seriously hamper his country s rbs six nations campaign.  four members of the executive board  including the chairman  david mackay  have resigned after a simmering row. and calder said:  this is terrible news for every level of scottish rugby.  david is a successful businessman and i thought that if anybody could transform the negative atmosphere and rising debt level  it was him.  mackay s executive board has been in a power struggle with the general committee  which contains members elected by scotland s club sides.  he has been driven out by people who seem happier waging civil war than addressing the central issue that professional rugby can t be run by amateurs   said calder.   in fact  i don t understand why we are still having this argument 10 years after professionalism arrived.  but i don t believe the rest of the sru will take this lying down.  i think the banks will be dismayed at this decision and  ultimately  it is them who pull the strings.  so i wouldn t be surprised if they reviewed their position. but  in the wider picture  what message does this send out   he thought the work of scotland s coaches  who have been attempting to arrest the decline of the national side  would be made much more difficult.  matt williams and willie anderson must be wondering   what have we walked into here    said calder.  and we can now expect weeks of arguments and acrimony just at a time when we should be looking forward to the six nations championship.  i am very  very disappointed  more than you can imagine. why do so many scots have this knack of turning on each other when the going gets tough
abbas  will not tolerate  attacks palestinian leader mahmoud abbas has said he will not tolerate attacks such as last friday s suicide bombing in the israeli city of tel aviv.  in an interview ahead of a meeting in london to discuss palestinian reforms  mr abbas said such attacks were against palestinian interests. the palestinian authority (pa) was exerting  a 100% effort  to end the violence  mr abbas added. the attack  which killed five  was the first of its kind since he took office. mr abbas confirmed israel shared information with the pa in the hunt for the organisers of the attack. the israeli government refuses to accept syria s denials that it was implicated in the nightclub bombing. israeli officials gave an intelligence briefing to foreign ambassadors on monday  explaining syria s alleged involvement. british foreign minister jack straw said there had been a  continuing stream  of information suggesting palestinian militant groups were operating from within syria.  in an email interview in the british newspaper the independent  mr abbas said:  we believe peace is possible now and we are ready to negotiate with israel to reach a true and lasting peace based on justice and international legitimacy.  he added:  we have an opportunity and it would be irresponsible if we  the israelis  or the world allow it to slip away.  tuesday s meeting on palestinian reform is being hosted by british prime minister tony blair. also due to attend are us secretary of state condoleezza rice  un secretary general kofi annan  world bank officials and foreign ministers from 23 european and arab countries. the conference was a  vital step  in renewing the peace process  mr straw said.  it s a high-level attendance  which reflects the sense of momentum and opportunity created by recent events   he added. a spokesman for mr blair said the prime minister expected the conference to discuss  a comprehensive  co-ordinated and  above all  practical work plan for both the palestinian authority and the international community . israel will not attend  but is said to be closely watching the outcome.
lee to create new film superhero comic book veteran stan lee is to team up with producer robert evans to create a movie featuring a new superhero.  foreverman will focus on a character who has to face problems in everyday life as well as using his special powers to save the world. paramount pictures  the studio behind the film  have revealed few details about the project but say it has the potential to spawn a series of films. lee is best known for his work on spider-man and the incredible hulk.  he is collaborating on the script with screenwriter peter briggs  who penned the recent comic book adaptation hellboy.  we believe it to be truly a whole new franchise   said gill champion  president and chief executive of lee s pow! entertainment.  in this world where people are looking for something different  stan s idea was to create a concept not seen before to become an evergreen franchise for paramount.  many of lee s other creations  including x-men and daredevil  have been turned into films in the past five years. however  the spider-man series has been the biggest box office hit  with the 2002 original and its 2004 sequel taking almost $1.6bn (£857m) worldwide. a third spider-man film is scheduled for release in 2007. another marvel comics adaptation  the fantastic four  will be released in cinemas this summer.
stuart joins norwich from addicks norwich have signed charlton midfielder graham stuart until the end of the season for an undisclosed fee.   it was a very easy decision to make   the 34-year-old told norwich s website.  the attraction for me was to continue to play in the premiership.  canaries boss nigel worthington added:  i m delighted that graham will be joining us until the end of the season.  he s gives us a wealth of experience. hopefully  he can be part of keeping us in the premier league.  stuart has extensive top-flight experience with everton  chelsea and charlton and can play across the midfield positions. he joins norwich with the norfolk club second-from-bottom in the premiership  but stuart is confident that the carrow road outfit have a bright future.  i ve been very impressed with the facilities here. it s obviously a very well run football club with excellent facilities and i ve always enjoyed playing at carrow road   he added.  it s a nice compact ground with a good atmosphere and hopefully i can help give the fans something else to cheer.   stuart  a former england under-21 international  made 110 appearances for chelsea  scoring 18 goals  before joining everton. he won the fa cup with the toffees in 1995 and remains a hero at goodison park after his 81st-minute winner against wimbledon saved everton from relegation in 1994. stuart spent just over four years at goodison park  making 125 senior appearances and scoring 25 goals  before signing for sheffield united - where he scored 12 goals in 68 appearances. after signing for charlton he made 164 appearances  scoring 23 times  but recently he has been battling a back problem and had not played for the londoners for three months before heading to norwich.
banker loses sexism claim a former executive at the london offices of merrill lynch has lost her £7.5m ($14.6m) sex discrimination case against the us investment bank.  an employment tribunal dismissed stephanie villalba s allegations of sexual discrimination and unequal pay. but the 42-year-old won her claim of unfair dismissal  resulting from her sacking in august 2003. her partial victory is likely to cap her compensation to about £55 000  a tiny fraction of what she asked for. the extent of damages will be assessed in the new year. the action - the biggest claim heard by an employment tribunal in the uk - had been viewed as something of a test case.  the tribunal decided that ms villalba had been unfairly dismissed because  having been removed from a senior post  she was entitled to wait to see if a suitable alternative position could be found in the organisation. ms villalba  the former head of merrill s private client business in europe  has made no decision on whether to appeal.  a spokesman for her lawyers described the decision as  very disappointing   but pointed to some criticism of merrill s procedures within the lengthy judgement. the tribunal upheld ms villalba s claim of victimisation on certain specific issues  including bullying e-mails in connection with a contract  but said it found no evidence of  laddish culture  at the bank.  we said from the start that this case was about performance not gender   merrill said in a statement.  ms villalba was removed by the very same person who had promoted her into the position and who then replaced her with another woman.  merrill lynch is dedicated to creating a true meritocracy where every employee has the opportunity to advance based on their skills and hard work.   based in london s financial district  ms villalba worked for merrill s global private client business in europe  investing funds for some of merrill s most important customers. but in 2003 her employers told her she had no future after 17 years with the company  and she was made redundant. merrill lynch denied ms villalba s claims and said she was removed from her post because of the extensive losses the firm was suffering on the continent. the firm had told the tribunal that ms villalba s division had been losing about $1m a week. merrill said ms villalba lacked the leadership skills to turn around the unit.
the year search became personal the odds are that when you fire up your browser  you go straight to your favourite search engine  rather than type in a web address.  some may see this as the height of laziness  but in an era of information overload  search has become a vital tool in navigating the net. it is symptomatic of how the way we use the internet is changing. and as google has shown  there is money in offering a service that people cannot live without. there is no shortage of companies vying for the loyalty of web searchers  offering a wealth of different services and tools to help you find what you want. over the past 12 months  giants of the technology world such as microsoft and yahoo have sought to grab a slice of the search action.  user experience has contributed to people searching more   said yonca brunini of yahoo. as people become more familiar with the internet  they tend to spend more time online and ask more queries  she said.  the other second thing is broadband   ms brunini told the bbc news website.  this will do to internet what colour has done to tv.   but search is hardly a new phenomenon. it has been around since the early days of the net.  veteran surfers will remember old-timers like hotbot and altavista.  search was always important   said urs holzle  google vice-president of operations.  we trumpeted that in 1999. it is even truer now as there are more users and more information.   people didn t realise that search was the future. the financials have something to do with it.  google has shown web commerce can work through its targeted small adverts  which appear at the top and down the right-hand side of a page and are related to the original search. these small ads helped google reach revenues of $805.9m for the three months to september. others have woken up to the fact that you can make money out of web queries.  once you see there is a market  microsoft is bound to step to it. if microsoft sees search as important  then nobody queries it   said mr holzle.  microsoft is just one of the net giants muscling in on search. yahoo  ask jeeves  amazon and a handful of smaller outfits are all seeking to capture eyeballs.  web users face a plethora of choices as each company tries to outflank google by rolling out new search products such as desktop search. it reflects how the battlefield has shifted from the net to your pc. search is not just about finding your way around the web. it is now about unlocking information hidden in the gigabytes of documents  images and music on hard drives. for all these advances  search is still a clumsy tool  often failing to come up with exactly what you had in mind. in order to do a better job  search engines are trying to get to know you better  doing a better job of remembering  cataloguing and managing all the information you come across.  personalisation is going to be a big area for the future   said yahoo s yonca brunini.  whoever cracks that and gives you the information you want is going to be the winner. we have to understand you to give you better results that are tailored to you.  this is perhaps the holy grail of search  understanding what it is you are looking for and providing it quickly. the problem is that no one yet knows how to get there.
ryanair in $4bn boeing plane deal budget airline ryanair has placed an order for 70 boeing 737-800 planes  in a deal valued at $4bn (£2.1bn) which should lead to 2 500 new ryanair jobs.  it also has an option for a further 70 aircraft  a move which brings the ryanair/boeing order book up to 225 firm orders and options on 193 more. ryanair said the new planes would help it to cut operating costs further. the carrier reported a drop in quarterly profit earlier this year after it was hit by higher fuel costs. however  when it reported the results  the airline was upbeat about prospects for 2005  despite tough competition in the budget airline market.  ryanair chairman david bonderman said that the 737-800 had  significantly reduced our unit operating costs and allowed us to reduce air fares each year for the last five years .   with this new order and new pricing in place  ryanair expects that unit operating costs (excluding fuel) will continue to fall each year for the next five years   he added. at the end of this year  ryanair will have taken delivery of about 100 new planes  while the 70 new orders are due for delivery between 2008 and 2012. the airline said that when all these planes have been delivered  it will be able to carry more than 70 million passengers a year  making it europe s largest airline. about 2 500 new jobs should be created in the next seven years  it added. the order can be seen as good news for boeing  which in recent years has been overtaken by european plane maker airbus as the world s biggest-selling plane maker.
lib dems  new election pr chief the lib dems have appointed a senior figure from bt to be the party s new communications chief for their next general election effort.  sandy walkington will now work with senior figures such as matthew taylor on completing the party manifesto. party chief executive lord rennard said the appointment was a  significant strengthening of the lib dem team . mr walkington said he wanted the party to be ready for any  mischief  rivals or the media tried to throw at it.   my role will be to ensure this new public profile is effectively communicated at all levels   he said.  i also know the party will be put under scrutiny in the media and from the other parties as never before - and we will need to show ourselves ready and prepared to counter the mischief and misrepresentation that all too often comes from the party s opponents.  the party is already demonstrating on every issue that it is the effective opposition.  mr walkington s new job title is director of general election communications.
card fraudsters  targeting web  new safeguards on credit and debit card payments in shops has led fraudsters to focus on internet and phone payments  an anti-fraud agency has said.  anti-fraud consultancy retail decisions says  card-not-present  fraud  where goods are paid for online or by phone  has risen since the start of 2005. the introduction of  chip and pin  cards has tightened security for transactions on the high street. but the clampdown has caused fraudsters to change tack  retail decisions said.  the introduction of chip and pin cards aimed to cut down on credit card fraud in stores by asking shoppers to verify their identity with a confidential personal pin number  instead of a signature. retail decisions chief executive carl clump told the bbc that there was  no doubt  that chip and pin would  reduce card fraud in the card-present environment .  however  it is important to monitor what happens in the card-not-present environment as fraudsters will turn their attention to the internet  mail order  telephone order and interactive tv   he said.  we have seen a 22% uplift in card-not-present fraud here in the uk... since the start of the year.  fraud doesn t just disappear  it mutates to the next weakest link in the chain   he said.  retail decisions  survey on the implementation of chip and pin found that shoppers had adapted easily to the new system  but that banks  performance in distributing the new cards had been patchy  at best.  the main issue is that not everyone has the pins they need   said mr clump. nearly two thirds - 65% - of the 1 000 people interviewed said they had used chip and pin to make payments. of these  83% were happy with the experience  though nearly a quarter said they struggled to remember their pin number. however  only 34% said they had received replacement cards with the necessary  chip  technology from all their card providers. furthermore  16% said that none of their cards had been replaced  while 30% said only some had. uk shoppers spent £5.3bn on plastic cards in 2003  the last full year for which figures are available from the association of payment clearing services (apacs). altogether  card scams on uk-issued cards totalled £402.4m in 2003. card-not-present fraud rose an annual 6% to £116.4m  making it the biggest category even then. within this  internet fraud totalled £43m  apacs  figures show.
guantanamo four questioned the four britons freed from us custody in guantanamo bay are expected to be allowed a visit by one relative.  moazzam begg  martin mubanga  feroz abbasi and richard belmar were held for three years  accused of al-qaeda links. mr begg s father  azmat  said he had been told he could see his son for 20 minutes and would say he was  a hero . the men are being held at london s paddington green police station  where they are expected to be questioned by uk anti-terror officers. but louise christian  the lawyer representing mr abbasi and mr mubanga  said the families would be reunited with the men away from the station. before being driven by police from birmingham to london  azmat begg said he was concerned for his son moazzam s mental state and was looking forward to giving him a hug. as azmat begg arrived at the london police station  there appeared to be some confusion as to the visiting arrangements. police have said they have a duty to investigate the men  who were arrested on their return to the uk. but metropolitan police commissioner sir john stevens said evidence obtained by mi5 while the four were in cuba was  absolutely  inadmissible in uk courts. in an interview with the independent  sir john said his officers would have to find other evidence before the suspects could be tried in the uk.  he told the newspaper:  if an admission is made  it is a totally different ball game... it could be used as evidence.  the options are: if there is enough evidence they will be charged. if not they will be released as soon as possible.  the men have been allowed to meet their lawyers. louise christian said that after being  tortured and abused  at guantanamo bay  the men s arrest was unfair and inappropriate. she told bbc news she remained very concerned about their psychological state. gareth peirce  lawyer for mr begg  said she was shocked at the condition of the men and appalled that the authorities felt the need to detain them. washington has claimed all four were  enemy combatants  who trained at camps run by al-qaeda. the pentagon says they were freed after the uk government promised they would not be a threat to the national security of the us or any of its allies.  the detainees were immediately arrested under section 41 of the terrorism act 2000 when they landed at raf northolt  west london  on tuesday. massoud shadjareh  from the muslim safety forum  said:  what sort of homecoming is this  they are innocent people.  the muslim council of britain urged that the men should receive counselling and medical help.  we want these men to be returned into the arms of their waiting family   said iqbal sacranie  secretary general of the council.
germany calls for eu reform german chancellor gerhard schroeder has called for radical reform of the eu s stability pact to grant countries more flexibility over their budget deficits.  mr schroeder said existing fiscal rules should be loosened to allow countries to run deficits above the current 3% limit if they met certain criteria. writing in the financial times  mr schroeder also said heads of government should have a greater say in reforms. changes to the pact are due to be agreed at an economic summit in march.  the current eu rules limit the size of a eurozone country s deficit to 3% of gdp. countries which exceed the threshold are liable to heavy fines by the european commission  although several countries  including germany  have breached the rules consistently since 2002 without facing punishment. the european commission acknowledged last month that it would not impose sanctions on countries who break the rules.  mr schroeder - a staunch supporter of the pact when it was set up in the 1990s - said exemptions were now needed to take into account the cost of domestic reform programmes and changing economic conditions.  the stability pact will work better if intervention by european institutions in the budgetary sovereignty of national parliaments is only permitted under very limited conditions   he wrote.  only if their competences are respected will the member states be willing to align their policies more consistently with the economic goals of the eu.   deficits should be allowed to rise above 3%  mr schroeder argued  if countries meet several  mandatory criteria . these include governments which are adopting costly structural reforms  countries which are suffering economic stagnation and nations which are shouldering  special economic burdens . the proposed changes would make it harder for the european commission to launch infringement action against any state which breaches the pact s rules. mr schroeder s intervention comes ahead of a meeting of the 12 eurozone finance ministers on monday to discuss the pact. the issue will also be discussed at tuesday s ecofin meeting of the finance ministers of all 25 eu members. mr schroeder also called for heads of government to play a larger role in shaping reforms to the pact. a number of eu finance ministers are believed to favour only limited changes to the eurozone s rules.
little britain two top comic list little britain stars matt lucas and david walliams have been named the most powerful people in tv comedy  in a poll by listings magazine radio times.  the duo kept phoenix nights creator peter kay at number two and the office star ricky gervais in third place. a radio times panel compiled the list  taking the comedians  critical acclaim and financial success into account. newcomers to the annual list included nighty night star julia davis at seven and black books  tamsin greig at 19.  lucas and walliams won numerous awards for little britain in 2004  including national television  royal television society and british comedy awards. more than 1.8 million people watched the first episode of the latest series of little britain on bbc three in october  giving the digital channel its highest rating ever.  they topped the radio times list after rising from 10th position last year. other big risers over the past year included presenting duo ant and dec at five  up from 13 in 2004  stephen fry rising nine places to 15 and bbc three controller stuart murphy  who moves to number 18 from 32 last year. last year s winner  chat show host graham norton  fell to number 16 following relatively few television appearances in 2004. production companies also featured in the top 50  including steve coogan s baby cow  which created nighty night among others  hat trick - behind the kumars at number 42 - and the vicar of dibley production company tiger aspect.
tv s future down the phone line internet tv has been talked about since the start of the web as we know it now.  but any early attempts to do it - the uk s home choice started in 1992 - were thwarted by the lack of a fast network. now that broadband networks are bedding down  and it is becoming essential for millions  the big telcos are keen to start shooting video down the line. in the face of competition from cable companies offering net voice calls  they are keen to be the top iptv dogs. software giant microsoft thinks iptv - internet protocol tv - is the future of television  and it sits neatly with its vision of the  connected entertainment experience .  telcos have been wanting to do video for a long time   ed graczyk  director of marketing for microsoft iptv  told the bbc news website.  the challenge has been the broadband network  and the state of technology up until not so long ago did not add up to a feasible solution.  compression technology was not efficient enough  the net was not good enough. a lot of stars have aligned in the last 18 months to make it a reality.   last year  he said  was all about deal making and partnering up; shaping the  iptv ecosystem . this year  those deals will start to play out and more services will come online.  2006 is where it starts ramping up and expanding to other geographies - over time as broadband becomes more prevalent in south america  and other parts of asia  it will expand   he added. what telcos really want to do is to send the  triple-play  of video  voice  and data down one single line  be it cable or dsl (digital subscriber line). some are talking about  quadruple play   too  with mobile services added into the mix. it is an emerging new breed of competition for satellite and cable broadcasters and operators. according to technology analysts  tdg research  there will be 20 million subscribers to iptv services in under six years.  key to the appeal of sending tv programmes down the same line as the web data  whenever a viewer wants it  is that it uses the same technology as the internet. it means there is not just a one-way relationship between the viewer and the  broadcaster . this allows for more dvd-like interactivity  limitless storage and broadcast space  bespoke channel  playlists   and thousands of hours of programmes or films at a viewer s fingertips. it potentially lets operators target programmes to smaller  niche or localised audiences  sending films to bollywood fans for instance  as well as individual devices.  operators could also send high-definition programmes straight to the viewer  bypassing the need for a special broadcast receiver. perhaps most compelling - yet some might say insignificant - is instantaneous channel flicking. currently  there is a delay when you try to do this on satellite  cable or freeview. with iptv  the speed is 15 milliseconds.  that gets rounds of applause   according to mr graczyk. microsoft is one of the companies that started thinking about iptv some time ago.  we believe this will be the way all tv is delivered in the future - but that is several years away   said mr graczyk.  as with music  tv has moved to digital formats.  the things software can do to integrate media into devices means a whole new generation of connected entertainment experiences that cross devices from the tv  to the mobile  to the gaming console and so on.  the company intends its microsoft s iptv edition software  an end-to-end management and delivery platform  to let telcos to do exactly that  seamlessly. it has netted seven major telcos as customers  representing a potential audience of 25 million existing broadband subscribers. its deal with us telco sbc was the largest tv software deal to date  said mr graczyk.  iptv is about more than telcos  though. there are several web-based offerings that aim to put control in the hands of the consumer by exploiting the net s power. jeremy allaire  chief of brightcove  told the bbc news website that it would be a flavour of iptv that was about harnessing the web as a  channel .   it is not just niches  but about exploiting content not usually viewed   he said.  we are focussed on the owners of video content who have rights to digitally distribute content  and who often see unencumbered distribution.  for them to do it through cable and so on is price-prohibitive   he said. this type of iptv service might also be a distribution channel for more established publishers who have unique types of content that they cannot offer through cable and satellite operators - history channel archives  for instance. what is a clear sign that iptv has a future is that microsoft is not the only player in the field. there are a lot of other  middleware  players providing similar management services as microsoft  like myrio and c-cor. but it will up to the viewer to decide if it really is to be successful.
sony psp tipped as a  must-have  sony s playstation portable is the top uk gadget for 2005  according to a round-up of ultimate gizmos compiled by stuff magazine.  it beats the ipod into second place in the top ten essentials list which predicts what gadget-lovers are likely to covet this year. owning all 10 gadgets will set the gadget lover back £7 455. that is £1 000 cheaper than last year s list due to falling manufacturing costs making gadgets more affordable.  portable gadgets dominate the list  including sharp s 902 3g mobile phone  the pentax optio sv digital camera and samsung s yepp yh-999 video jukebox.   what this year s essentials shows is that gadgets are now cheaper  sexier and more indispensable than ever. we ve got to the point where we can t live our lives without certain technology   said adam vaughan  editor of stuff essentials. the proliferation of gadgets in our homes is inexorably altering the role of the high street in our lives thinks mr vaughan.  take digital cameras  who would now pay to develop an entire film of photos  or legitimate downloads  who would travel miles to a record shop when they could download the song in minutes for 70p   he asks. next year will see a new set of technologies capturing the imaginations of gadget lovers  stuff predicts. the xbox 2  high-definition tv and mp3 mobiles will be among the list of must-haves that will dominate 2006  it says. the spring launch of the psp in the uk is eagerly awaited by gaming fans.
stars gear up for bafta ceremony film stars from across the globe are preparing to walk the red carpet at this year s bafta award ceremony.  the 2005 orange british academy film awards are being held at the odeon in london s leicester square. a host of hollywood stars  including cate blanchett  leonardo dicaprio  keanu reeves and richard gere  are expected to attend saturday s ceremony. hosted by stephen fry  the glittering ceremony will be broadcast on bbc one at 2010 gmt.  other actors expected to add to the glamour of the biggest night in uk film are gael garcia bernal  imelda staunton  diane kruger  christian slater  anjelica huston  helen mirren and former james bond star pierce brosnan. hollywood blockbuster the aviator  starring dicaprio  leads the field with 14 nominations  including best film.  it is up against eternal sunshine of the spotless mind  finding neverland  the motorcycle diaries and british film vera drake  which has 11 nominations. british hope imelda staunton is one of the favourites to land the best actress award for her gritty role as a backstreet abortionist in the small-budget film. other nominees in the best actress category include charlize theron for monster  ziyi zhang for house of flying daggers and uk star kate winslet  who has two nods for her roles in eternal sunshine of the spotless mind and finding neverland.  dicaprio faces competition from bernal  jamie foxx  jim carrey and johnny depp in the best actor category. and british actor clive owen is hoping to repeat his golden globe success with a best supporting actor award for his role in closer. his co-star natalie portman is up against blanchett  heather craney  julie cristie and meryl streep in the best supporting actress category. mike leigh is up for the best director award for vera drake  alongside martin scorsese for the aviator  michael mann for collateral  michel gondry for eternal sunshine of the spotless mind and marc forster for finding neverland.
saudi ncci s shares soar shares in saudi arabia s national company for cooperative insurance (ncci) soared on their first day of trading in riyadh.  they were trading 84% above the offer price on monday  changing hands at 372 riyals ($99; £53) after topping 400 early in the day. demand for the insurer s debut shares was strong - 12 times what was on sale. the listing was part of the country s plans to open up its insurance market and boost demand in the sector. deregulation is expected to boost demand for accident and damage cover.  previously  only ncci has been legally allowed to offer insurance products within saudi arabia. however  the authorities have turned a blind eye to the many other firms selling insurance. saudi arabia now wants a fully functioning insurance industry and is introducing legislation that will clamp down on unauthorised companies. policy-makers also want to make having insurance more of a requirement  but first have to take steps to boost public confidence in the system  analysts said. as a result  ncci is being developed as the industry s flagship firm - publicly-listed  with audited accounts. saudi arabia sold 7 million ncci shares  or about 70% of the company s total capital last month. more than 800 000 applicants got 9 shares each for 205 riyals apiece.
hatfield executives go on trial engineering firm balfour beatty and five railway managers are to go on trial for manslaughter over the hatfield rail crash in 2000.  four people died when a section of rail broke and a high speed train derailed. balfour beatty s railway maintenance arm was in charge of the upkeep of the line at hatfield  hertfordshire. balfour beatty managers anthony walker and nicholas jeffries  and railtrack managers alistair cook  sean fugill and keith lea all face individual charges. all five men  along with four others  are also accused of breaches of health and safety laws. balfour beatty rail maintenance faces a corporate manslaughter charge. it is expected the trial could last as long as a year. the accident  on 17 october 2000  happened when the london to leeds express came off the tracks at 115 mph  when it was derailed by a cracked section of rail. the accident on the east coast main line sparked major disruption. the overall responsibility for the line was railtrack s - the company that has now become network rail. those who died in the accident were steve arthur  46  from pease pottage  west sussex; peter monkhouse  50  of headingley  leeds; leslie gray  43  of tuxford  nottingham; and robert james alcorn  37  of auckland  new zealand.
kluft impressed by sotherton form olympic heptathlon champion carolina kluft was full of admiration for britain s kelly sotherton as the pair prepared to clash in birmingham.  both will be in action on friday in the 60m hurdles and long jump ahead of the european indoor championships later this month in madrid. sotherton finished third behind the swede in athens  and kluft said:  i knew about her  she s a great girl.  she looked very good early in the season and was competing really well.  kluft showed impressive early-season form on tuesday in stockholm s ge galan meeting  winning the sprint hurdles  the long jump and the 400m. sotherton has also displayed promise  with a new high jump personal best in sheffield at the combined norwich union european trials and aaa championships  and a second place in the long jump behind jade johnson.
pupils to get anti-piracy lessons lessons on music piracy and copyright issues are to be taught to secondary school pupils in the uk.  the lessons  aimed at 11 to 14-year-olds  will introduce them to copyright - including the issues of downloading from the internet and the illegal copying of cds - and its role in protecting creativity.  music piracy  including illegally swapping music online  costs the uk music industry millions every year and has been blamed for a decline in world-wide cd sales. british music rights (bmr) - which was formed to represent the interests of songwriters and composers - worked with education experts to put together a learning pack.  songwriter guy chambers  who has worked with stars including robbie williams  has thrown his support behind the scheme. he said as well as educating children about music piracy  it would also protect young people planning a career in the music industry from  unscrupulous  individuals. at a debate in london to launch the scheme  chambers said:  i think it is important that young people receive practical and engaging learning in schools.  these lessons will give them an insight into how the creative industries work which will help them in possible future careers.  the education pack  which has already been requested by more than 1 600 secondary schools  is aimed at giving children an understanding of copyright in relation to the music industry. it will also teach children about the importance of royalties and raises awareness of different careers in the music industry  particularly in the digital age.  henri yoxall  general manager of british music rights  told bbc news schools had been crying out for a resource to help them educate pupils about the issues. the scheme - which is an extension of bmr s respect the value of music campaign - is also being backed by singer-songwriters feargal sharkey  lucie silvas and grammy award-winning composer david arnold. silvas said:  i think it is so important that students gain an understanding of how the music industry works when they are at a young age.  i wish i had been given an opportunity like this when i was at school.  emma pike  director general of british music rights  said:  we believe that copyright is an essential part of teaching music in schools. it is vital that the creatives of the future know how to turn their ideas into value.  copyright education has always been important... creatives are facing more challenges and more opportunities from technological change.  technology is allowing people to create music and distribute their music to the public in a whole host of new ways.
ocean s twelve raids box office ocean s twelve  the crime caper sequel starring george clooney  brad pitt and julia roberts  has gone straight to number one in the us box office chart.  it took $40.8m (£21m) in weekend ticket sales  according to studio estimates. the sequel follows the master criminals as they try to pull off three major heists across europe. it knocked last week s number one  national treasure  into third place. wesley snipes  blade: trinity was in second  taking $16.1m (£8.4m). rounding out the top five was animated fable the polar express  starring tom hanks  and festive comedy christmas with the kranks.  ocean s twelve box office triumph marks the fourth-biggest opening for a december release in the us  after the three films in the lord of the rings trilogy. the sequel narrowly beat its 2001 predecessor  ocean s eleven which took $38.1m (£19.8m) on its opening weekend and $184m (£95.8m) in total. a remake of the 1960s film  starring frank sinatra and the rat pack  ocean s eleven was directed by oscar-winning director steven soderbergh. soderbergh returns to direct the hit sequel which reunites clooney  pitt and roberts with matt damon  andy garcia and elliott gould. catherine zeta-jones joins the all-star cast.  it s just a fun  good holiday movie   said dan fellman  president of distribution at warner bros. however  us critics were less complimentary about the $110m (£57.2m) project  with the los angeles times labelling it a  dispiriting vanity project . a milder review in the new york times dubbed the sequel  unabashedly trivial .
irish finish with home game republic of ireland manager brian kerr has been granted his wish for a home game as the final world cup qualifier.  ireland will close their bid to reach the 2006 finals by playing switzerland in dublin on 12 october 2005. the republic met the swiss in their final euro 2004 qualifier  losing 2-0 away and missing out on a place in the finals in portugal. the group four fixtures were hammered out at a meeting in dublin on tuesday. the irish open their campaign on 4 september at home to cyprus and wrap up the 10-match series on 12 october 2005  with the visit of switzerland. manager brian kerr and fai officials met representatives from switzerland  france  cyprus  israel and the faroe islands to arrange the fixture schedule. kerr had hoped to finish with a clash against france  but got the reigning european champions as their penultimate home match on 7 september 2005. the manager got his wish to avoid a repeat of finishing their bid to qualify with too many away matches.  republic of ireland v cyprus; france v israel; switzerland v faroe islands.  switzerland v republic of ireland; israel v cyprus; faroe islands v france.  france v republic of ireland; israel v switzerland; cyprus v faroe islands.  republic of ireland v faroe islands; cyprus v france.  cyprus v israel.  france v switzerland; israel v republic of ireland.  switzerland v cyprus; israel v france.  republic of ireland v israel; faroe islands v switzerland.  faroe islands v republic of ireland. august 17 - faroe islands v cyprus.  france v faroe islands; switzerland v israel.  republic of ireland v france; cyprus v switzerland; faroe islands v israel.  switzerland v france; israel v faroe islands; cyprus v republic of ireland.  france v cyprus; republic of ireland v switzerland.
arsenal  may seek full share listing  arsenal vice-chairman david dein has said the club may consider seeking a full listing for its shares on the london stock exchange.  speaking at the soccerex football business forum in dubai  he said a full listing was  one of the options  for funding after the club moves to its new stadium. the club - which is currently listed on the smaller ofex share exchange - is due to move into its new 60 000-seater emirates stadium at ashburton grove for the start of the 2006/07 season. mr dein also warned the current level of tv coverage of the premiership may be reaching saturation level  with signs that match attendances have been dropping off in the first few months of this season.  when arsenal moves to its new stadium it will see its proportion of turnover from media earnings drop from 52% this season to 34% in two years  time. the club is hoping to increase matchday earnings from 29% to 40% of turnover  and has not ruled out other money-earning means  including a full share listing.  when the new stadium opens we will go through a thorough financial review   mr dein said.   listing would be one option  but we are flexible and no decisions have been made on that issue yet.  we want to be in the best financial health - maybe clubs can do it (listing)  manchester united have been a success.   mr dein said that  although television money and coverage had driven the english game forward in the past 10 years  he feared there might now be too many games being shown. since the formation of the premier league in season 1992/93  premiership clubs have seen their income from television soar.  television has been the driving force over the past 10 years... but we must constantly improve if we want to remain as the world s leading league competition.  we must monitor the quality of the product and ensure attendances do not decline  and we must balance that with the quantity of exposure on tv too.  i think we have practically reached saturation point... sometimes i think less is more.   the club is funding its move to ashburton grove through a number of sources  including debt from banks  from money it already has and will receive in coming years from sponsors  and from the sale of surplus property  including its highbury stadium. it is also looking to create new revenue streams from overseas markets  including asia.  we have two executives travelling round japan and china at the moment building relationships with organisations and clubs  and we know our supporters clubs are growing there too  as they are around the world.  we have got a very good product  so it is very important we go and look at these markets  and make sure we are on the case.
queen recruit singer for new tour the remaining members of rock band queen are to go on tour next year with former free and bad company singer paul rodgers taking freddie mercury s place.  guitarist brian may has said he expects to be on the road with rodgers and drummer roger taylor from april. may said:  suddenly the queen phoenix is rising again from the ashes and will take precedence over... our lives.  queen have played with many different singers since mercury s death in 1991 but have reportedly not toured. may performed with rodgers at a concert to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the fender stratocaster guitar in london in september.   we were both so amazed at the chemistry that was going on in [free hit] all right now  that suddenly it seems blindingly obvious that there was  something happening here    may wrote on his website. they teamed up again for a concert to mark their induction into the uk music hall of fame  and were joined by taylor.  the show went so incredibly well from our point of view  and we got so many rave reactions from out there  we decided almost then and there that we would look at a tour together   may wrote.  queen went to number one in 2000 with a version of we will rock you sung by boy band 5ive and they have also played with robbie williams  will young and bob geldof. queen bassist john deacon has currently retired from the stage. rodgers was singer with early 1970s rockers free  who had a global hit with all right now  before forming bad company  a successful  supergroup  with members of king crimson and mott the hoople. he has also been in the firm with led zeppelin s jimmy page and the law with the small faces and the who drummer kenny jones.
turkey deal  to help world peace  a deal bringing turkey a step closer to eu membership is of  fundamental importance  to the peace and security of the world  tony blair has said.  the deal  struck at the european council last week  also proved claims of a clash between muslims and christians were  wrong   mr blair said. it represented the achievement of an  historic british objective   he added. tory leader michael howard said the deal laid to rest any suggestion the eu was  anti-islamic .  turkey s involvement with the eu would provide an  invaluable bridge  between europe and the rest of the world  mr howard added. but the tory leader argued that the eu constitution was not designed to take in a country as large as turkey. mr blair has been a leading advocate of turkish membership despite controversy surrounding the idea. he insisted that the turkish leadership had made great advances in improving its human rights records. the deal to open formal talks with ankara came despite an eu demand for turkey to recognise cyprus.  it was agreed the issue can be tackled at a later date but turkish premier recep erdogan had to accept negotiations did not guarantee his country full eu membership. the internationally recognised southern part of cyprus is an eu member  but turkey  which occupies northern cyprus  had previously insisted it would not bow to demands to recognise the country  calling the issue a  red line . it could take up to 15 years before turkey is able to join  and entry cannot be guaranteed. if it joins  turkey may have to accept restrictions to limit migration by its citizens. the eu has also announced that it will start accession talks with croatia in april 2005. however  talks will begin only if the country co-operates fully with the un war crimes tribunal for the former yugoslavia.
chelsea ridiculed over complaint barcelona assistant coach henk ten cate has branded chelsea s expected complaint to uefa as  pathetic .  the blues are poised to complain about an alleged half-time incident during wednesday s 2-1 loss at the nou camp. the source of chelsea s anger was an alleged talk between barca boss frank rijkaard and referee anders frisk  who later dismissed didier drogba.  to react the way chelsea have is pathetic. mourinho lied with the line-ups  and now this   ten cate said. uefa has said its own tunnel representative witnessed nothing unusual out of the ordinary during the half-time break. spokesman william gaillard said:  frisk says rijkaard greeted him and apologised he had not had the opportunity to say hello before the game.  we had two uefa officials there and neither witnessed it. the referee s dressing room was locked and he and his assistants were the only people allowed in.  indeed  it is the londoners who could be on the receiving end of any punishment after failing to turn up for the compulsory press conference after the defeat.  uefa delegate thomas giordano added:  the only unusual thing that happened as far as we are concerned is that chelsea failed to present themselves in the press conference.  the referee is not expected to include any of the alleged incidents in his report to uefa - weakening chelsea s case. rijkaard was critical of mourinho s decision not to speak to the media after the match.  there was a lot of talking before the game and now surprisingly there is a lot of talking after the game. it is not good behaviour after a match   he said.  maybe they want to start something and make it worse than than it is. i really don t understand it. i am very calm about it.   barca midfielder deco  formerly managed by mourinho at porto  agreed that it was not typical of his fellow portuguese to lodge a protest.  it s not normal behaviour on his part. it was not logical he did not give a news conference   he said. rijkaard added:  chelsea is the team which has conceded fewest goals in the english league and they defend very well so i am very pleased with the win.  my men deserved victory and i am pleased to have won this match. i congratulate my players.
ferguson fears milan cutting edge manchester united manager sir alex ferguson said his side s task against ac milan would not be made any easier by the absence of andriy shevchenko.  milan s talismanic european footballer of the year misses wednesday s champions league first-leg tie after fracturing his cheekbone.  it s a loss (to milan)  but it could be worse if they didn t have such quality to bring in   ferguson said.  how much they miss him i think they ll know tomorrow night.  ferguson said milan s front line would still represent a formidable challenge for his defenders.  they can play rui costa and play kaka forward. they can bring serginho in and they can play (jon dahl) tomasson   he said. ferguson s own goalscoring talisman ruud van nistelrooy is fit again  but the scot admitted he was unsure whether to start the dutchman  who has not played for three months.   ruud is the best striker in europe. what i have to judge is whether he will struggle with the early pace after being out for so long   he said.  his ability puts him in with a big shout but it is a major decision.  ferguson  though  is confident his young players  particularly wayne rooney and cristiano ronaldo  are up to the task.  we have an opportunity to win this cup this year  no question about that   he declared.  with the maturity we see every week in ronaldo and rooney  the return of van nistelrooy and the form of roy keane  paul scholes and ryan giggs  we must have a fantastic chance.  it is a view shared by rooney  who believes  if we can get past milan  we have a great chance .  as soon as i knew we were playing milan  i got excited. looking at the draw  it is anyone s trophy but we have every chance.  hopefully  we can get to that final in turkey and bring the cup back to manchester.  milan coach carlo ancelotti said his team were looking forward to returning to the venue where they lifted europe s most prestigious club title two seasons ago. milan beat juventus in a penalty shootout after a 0-0 tie at old trafford and ancelotti said:  we are all very happy to return (to old trafford) to play in the champions league and this will give us great motivation.  ancelotti said he was aware of the threat united posed to his hopes of champions league glory.  it s fundamental that we don t allow them to take control of the game. our intention is not to adapt to their play but to play our game   he said.  they have great quality in attack  they use the wings a lot and we will have to make sure we stop them.
goldsmith denies war advice claim the attorney general has denied his statement to parliament about the legality of the iraq war was drafted by downing street officials.  lord goldsmith said lord falconer and baroness morgan played no part in drafting the answer. he added the answer represented his view that the war was legal  but was not a summary of his advice to the pm. the government has resisted calls to publish the full advice  saying such papers are always kept confidential.  in a statement  lord goldsmith said:  i was fully involved throughout the drafting process and personally finalised  and of course approved  the answer.  he said the answer had been prepared in his office with the involvement of solicitor general harriet harman  two of his own officials  three foreign office officials  a qc  christopher greenwood and the then lord chancellor  lord irvine of lairg.   no other minister or official was involved in any way.  he suggested the claim that lord falconer and lady morgan had drafted the answer were the result of a mis-transcription of his evidence to the butler inquiry into pre-war intelligence.  as i have always made clear  i set out in the answer my own genuinely held  independent view that military action was lawful under the existing (un) security council resolutions   he said.  the answer did not purport to be a summary of my confidential legal advice to government.  former foreign secretary robin cook said lord goldsmith s admission that his parliamentary answer was not a summary of his legal opinion suggested parliament may have been misled.  the attorney general may never have presented his answer as a summary  but others certainly did   he said.  what is clear from his statement today is that he does not believe that it was a full  accurate summary of his formal opinion.   earlier  tony blair dismissed questions about the attorney general s advice  and said his parliamentary statement had been a  fair summary  of his opinion.  that s what he (lord goldsmith) said and that s what i say. he has dealt with this time and time and time again   mr blair told his monthly news conference in downing street. he refused to answer further questions on the issue.  on the question of whether such papers have always been kept confidential  tory mp michael mates  who is a member of the commons intelligence and security committee and was part of the butler inquiry  told the bbc:  that  as a general rule  is right  but it s not an absolute rule.  he said there had been other occasions when advice had been published  most recently regarding prince charles s marriage plans. the government could not pick and choose when to use the convention  he said. mr mates added:  this may be one of those special occasions... when it would be in the public interest to see the advice which the attorney general gave to the prime minister.   the claims about lord falconer and baroness morgan s involvement were made in a book published this week by philippe sands qc  a member of cherie blair s matrix chambers. he also says lord goldsmith warned tony blair on 7 march 2003 that the iraq war could be illegal without a second un resolution sanctioning military action.  a short statement about lord goldsmith s position presented in a written parliamentary answer on 17 march 2003 - just before a crucial commons vote on the military action - did not suggest this. former minister clare short  who resigned from the government over the iraq war  said the ministerial answer was the same statement that was earlier shown to the cabinet as it discussed military action. she said the full advice should have been attached  according to the ministerial code  and demanded a lords inquiry into the matter. the conservatives and liberal democrats say they still want the publication of the full legal advice given by the attorney general. lib dem foreign affairs spokesman sir menzies campbell said lord goldsmith s statement still did not clear up the outstanding issues.  if his original advice of 7 march accepted that military action might be illegal  how was it that he resolved any such doubts by the time the parliamentary answer was published on 17 march   he said.  only the fullest disclosure will now do.
saudi investor picks up the savoy london s famous savoy hotel has been sold to a group combining saudi billionaire investor prince alwaleed bin talal and a unit of hbos bank.  financial details of the deal  which includes the nearby simpson s in the strand restaurant  were not disclosed. the seller - irish-based property firm quinlan private - bought the savoy along with the berkeley  claridge s and the connaught for £750m last year. prince alwaleed s hotel investments include the luxury george v in paris. he also has substantial stakes in fairmont hotels & resorts  which will manage the savoy and simpson s in the strand  and four seasons. fairmont said it planned to invest $48m (£26m) in renovating parts of the savoy including the river room and suites with views over the river thames. work was expected to be completed by summer 2006  fairmont said.
public show for reynolds portrait sir joshua reynolds  portrait of omai will get a public airing following fears it would stay hidden because of an export wrangle.  the tate gallery unsuccessfully tried to buy the picture from its anonymous owner after a ban was issued preventing the painting from leaving the uk. the 18th century painting has remained in storage but the owner has agreed to allow it to be part of an exhibition. the exhibition of reynolds  work will be shown at tate britain from may. joshua reynolds: the creation of celebrity will feature prints  caricatures  and sculpture by the 18th century artist  who painted some of the most famous personalities of his day. portrait of omai fetched the second highest amount for a british painting when it was sold at auction for £10.3m in 2001. it was bought by a london dealer who sold it on to a collector. the unnamed collector wanted to take it out of the country  but was barred from doing so by the government because of its historical significance.  in march 2004  the tate managed to raise £12.5m funding to buy the portrait but the owner refused to sell and it has been held in storage since. the portrait is of a young man who was dubbed  the noble savage  when he arrived in london from polynesia. he became a darling of london society and was invited to all the best parties by people who were fascinated by such an exotic character. sir joshua painted him after his arrival in 1774  and it became the artist s most famous work after it was first exhibited at the royal academy in 1776.
new  yob  targets to be unveiled fifty new areas getting special help to fight anti-social behaviour in england and wales will be named on thursday.  ten areas have already had access to special prosecutors and local experts and the government is now expanding the crackdown to more towns and cities. details of how many anti-social behaviour orders (asbos) were used in the last year are also being published. labour sees nuisance behaviour as a key election issue but critics claim the record is at best patchy. a year ago  ministers launched their anti-social behaviour plan and thursday s figures offer a progress check. they will say that in the past year more than 2 600 anti-social behaviour orders were issued by the courts - more than double the total used in the previous four years.  police have also closed 150 crack houses and issued more than 400 dispersal orders  breaking up groups of youths in public places. the 50 new pilot areas to get special attention will also receive extra government funding. exeter and cardiff are among cities who have voiced interest in being involved.  prime minister tony blair is also expected to announce new measures to strengthen the use of asbos and fixed penalty notices. there are still concerns that some areas of the country are not using the powers properly.  he is expected to say that the new figures were heartening but he would not rest until similar action was taken in all areas of the country where it was needed.  we have not defeated this problem by any means  but shown together what can be done   he will say. mr blair this week defended the shake-up of the licensing laws  saying it was right to focus on troublemakers rather than treating everybody as a potential drunken nuisance.  ministers also boast of record police numbers and are speeding up plans to put in place 25 000 community support officers (csos). but researchers from leeds university warned that csos could undermine traditional bonds between police officers and communities. more work needed to be done on clarifying the role of different agencies and how they linked together before csos  they argued in a the study. critics of the government say it has announced more than 20 initiatives to tackle nuisance behaviour when the real focus should be on good policing. home office minister hazel blears also revealed this week that  about a third  of asbos were breached - with some people jailed and others not.
hodgson relishes european clashes former blackburn boss roy hodgson says the premiership should follow the rest of europe and have a winter break - but insists that a gruelling domestic schedule will not damage the english elite s bid for champions league glory.  hodgson - now in charge at viking stavanger - was at liverpool s clash with bayer leverkusen at anfield on tuesday as a member of uefa s technical committee. hodgson is a fierce advocate of the winter break employed throughout europe  although not in england - where the champions league contenders have ploughed through a heavy fixture list. but hodgson told bbc sport that while he believes the premiership should embrace the idea  he does not expect it to cost the english representatives in the last 16 of the champions league.  i just feel it is very difficult to say with certainty that teams who have had the break will have a definite edge.  i am a fervent supporter of the break. it gives players the chance to recharge their batteries midway through the season  which some suggest will give teams an advantage in the champions league.  the other school of thought suggests having a break then coming back to it puts you at a disadvantage.  the bigger discussions around the winter break should be to do with the nature of football today  the needs of football players and the way the premiership has developed  rather than one or two matches in the champions league in february.  hodgson believes a winter break carries many advantages  explaining:  as i said  it is the perfect chance to recharge batteries.   and certainly if i was still a manager in england i would be supporting any calls for its introduction.  in pre-season you get a lot of enthusiasm and energy but by the time you get towards christmas many players  having also played plenty of international matches for club and country and travelled a lot  find themselves getting very jaded.  the break gives them a chance to recover that energy and enthusiasm and  perhaps more importantly  recover their mental strength during the break and get ready for the games ahead.  the mental side is by far the most important thing.  hodgson added:  the length of breaks can vary. in italy the break was very short. you just took christmas and new year.  it was so short you didn t do anything. you gave the players a week or 10 days off  then you were training for a week or 10 days and then went into a game.  if it is longer  it is important those responsible for physical fitness give the players a programme to follow to ensure the physical strength they have accumulated stays with them.  and hodgson believes a winter break would be a positive step in the premiership. he said:  if we talk about football at elite level  which the premiership is  then i would support a winter break.  if you examine the demands of the premier league and  in particular on players who play international football for their club and country  then a break would do them the world of good - physically and mentally.
us actor ossie davis found dead us actor ossie davis has been found dead at the age of 87.  davis  who was married to actress ruby dee  was found dead on friday in his hotel room in miami beach  florida  where he was making a film. davis  whose 65-year career included credits as a producer  director  actor and writer for stage and screen  was also a civil rights activist. miami beach police spokesman bobby hernandez said the cause of death appeared to be natural.  davis s body was discovered by his grandson and paramedics at the shore club hotel in miami beach  where the actor had been shooting the film retirement. mr hernandez said:  after gaining entry  they found mr davis had passed away.  the cause of death appears to be natural. according to his grandson he was suffering from heart disease.  some of davis s best known roles included the joe louis story and gone are the days - a film he adapted from his own play  purlie victorious. he also appeared in 7 spike lee movies  including school daze  do the right thing and jungle fever.  his film debut  in 1950  was in the film no way out  starring sydney poitier and ruby dee. davis and dee were married for more than 56 years and together received kennedy center honours in 2004 for their body of work. the actors  equity association issued a statement calling davis  an icon in the american theatre  and he and dee  american treasures . davis was also a prominent figure in the civil rights movement and was a voice for racial equality. he was a featured speaker at the funerals of both martin luther king jnr and malcolm x. besides dee  davis is survived by three children nora  hasna and guy  a blues artist  and seven grandchildren.
rap feud in 50 cent s g-unit crew us rap star 50 cent has said he has thrown protege the game out of his g-unit gang in a feud that has apparently involved two shootings.  in a radio interview on monday  50 cent said the newcomer was disloyal in conflicts with other rappers. a man was shot in the thigh outside new york s hot 97 studios while 50 cent was on air. more shots were fired outside his management offices two hours later. 50 cent appeared on the game s debut album  which was number one in the us. 50 cent  whose second album is about to be released after his debut made him one of hip-hop s biggest stars  has been involved in recent rivalries with fellow artists including fat joe  nas and jadakiss.  he has claimed credit for the success of the game  who has become the hottest new star on the rap scene. both were drug dealers and were shot before turning to music.  in an interview with hot 97 on saturday  the game described some of 50 cent s rivals as  my friends  and said he would not turn on them.  nas is one of my friends  and jada s really a homie   he said.  50 s beef is 50 s beef and i really don t know where all this stems from.  when 50 cent appeared on the same station two days later  he said the game was no longer a member of g-unit.  every record he s selling is based on me being on his record with him   he said. when the shooting took place outside the studio  the interview was ended and the rapper was escorted out of the building by security personnel.  an unidentified 24-year-old los angeles man is stable with a gunshot wound to the upper thigh. police say the game s associates may have heard the interview and gone to the studio  where they confronted 50 cent s entourage. officers are also investigating a later shooting in which eight bullets were fired into the door of 50 cent s management company  violator. no arrests have been made in relation to either incident. 50 cent s second album  the massacre  is released on thursday  five weeks after the game s debut  documentary  went to number one.  elliott wilson  editor-in-chief of hip-hop magazine xxl  said the feud would boost publicity for 50 cent s release.  it helps him obviously in terms of exposure. you can t ask for better promotion   he said. but he added:  i think he s making more and more enemies.  you definitely feel like is he doing too much of a tupac spiral  like me against the world. you bring more people wanting to see you fail.  tupac shakur was shot dead in 1996.
uk will stand firm on eu rebate  britain s £3bn eu rebate is not up for renegotiation at next week s european council summit  jack straw said.  the foreign secretary told mps the rebate  secured by margaret thatcher in 1984  was  entirely justified . new european commission president jose manuel barroso has suggested the cash could be shared out among net contributors to the eu budget. mr straw acknowledged some countries in the newly enlarged 25 nation eu still had to  see the light  on the rebate.  but the foreign secretary told the commons foreign affairs committee:  our position is very clear: it is entirely justified and it is not for negotiation.  he added that he did not think there would be a political price to pay for the uk s stance - britain contributed more and received less than other eu states. the two-day european council summit in brussels begins on 16 december and is widely expected to mark the beginning of a lengthy negotiating period over the eu s budget for 2007-13. the wrangling could stretch into 2005  even 2006.  the uk  france  germany  austria  the netherlands and sweden want the eu budget to be capped at 1% of member states  combined national incomes - the commission wants it to be 1.26%. mr straw said the eu commission s proposal would mean a 35% hike in the budget.  i don t know of any national government thinking of increasing its budget by that amount   he added. the foreign secretary said he hoped the talks next week could produce a date in 2005 for the beginning of negotiations with turkey about possible eu membership although that there would be no prospect of a date for joining for some time.
pre-poll clash on tax and spend labour and the tories have clashed over tax and spending plans as the row over gordon brown s budget turned into a full scale pre-election battle.  tony blair claimed a tory government would  cut  £35bn from public services hitting schools  hospitals and police. tory chairman liam fox accused labour of  at best misrepresentation at worst a downright lie  and said the  smear  tactics were a sign of desperation. the lib dems accused mr brown of ducking the issue of council tax rises.  appearing together at a labour poster launch  the prime minister hailed his chancellor s  brilliant  performance. and he claimed the tories would cut £35bn from public services  which was the equivalent of sacking every doctor and teacher in the uk.  the tories said they would not cut spending but agreed public spending would increase more slowly under their plans - leading to a total of £33.5bn less spending than that anticipated by labour by 2011. but they say not a single doctor  teacher or nurse will be cut. dr fox said:  we have said we will be spending more  year on year over and above inflation.  and to call that a cut is at best a misrepresentation  at worst a downright lie.   tory shadow chancellor oliver letwin also predicted mr brown would have to raise taxes by £10bn or £11bn if labour was re-elected because he was borrowing and spending too much. for the lib dems  vince cable said the chancellor had failed to deal with the  looming problems  of revaluation of council tax bands which he argued would result in  massive increases  for some. mr brown and mr blair staged a show of unity on thursday morning  the day after the chancellor delivered a record-breaking ninth budget.  mr cable said taxation as a share of the economy would go up under all three of the main parties. the chancellor meanwhile insisted his spending plans were  affordable . in wednesday s budget  mr brown doubled the level at which homebuyers pay stamp duty  unveiled a rise in child tax credit and a £200 council tax refund for over-65s. defending the plans  he told today:  i will take no risks with the stability of the economy.  all our spending plans announced yesterday [wednesday]  including what we can do for pensioners  as well as for young families and on stamp duty and inheritance tax  all these are costed and affordable.  in a further sign  if any were needed  that the election is approaching  the house of commons authorities have formally told mps their offices will be  deep cleaned  during the three-week poll campaign. mr blair has yet to name the day - but it is widely expected to be 5 may.
moya sidesteps davis cup in 2005 carlos moya has chosen not to help spain try and defend the davis cup crown they won in seville in november.  moya led spain to victory over the usa but wants to focus on the grand slams in 2005  although insists he will return to the davis cup in 2006.  after two years of total commitment with the davis cup team... i have taken this difficult decision to concentrate on the regular circuit   said moya.  they know that after this season they can count on me again if they so wish.  the 1998 french open champion is determined to make an impact in the major events after spending much of the last eight years in the top 10.  at the age of 29 i have set some tough goals in my professional career and this season i need to fix my objectives on specific dates and tournaments   he said.  since the davis cup in seville i have been working on my condition as well as technical and medical aspects of my game which will allow me to come into the big events of the year in top form.   moya began 2005 with victory in the chennai open on sunday.
yahoo moves into desktop search internet giant yahoo has launched software to allow people to search e-mail and other files on their pcs.  the firm is following in the footsteps of microsoft  google and ask jeeves  which have offered similar services. search has become a lucrative and hotly-contested area of expansion for net firms  looking to extend loyalty beyond the web. with hard drives providing bigger storage  users could need more help to locate important files  such as photos.  the desktop search technology has been licensed from a us-based firm x1 technologies. it is designed to work alongside microsoft s outlook and outlook express e-mail programs. searching e-mail effectively is becoming increasingly important  especially as the amount of spam increases. according to research from message analysts the radicati group  up to 45% of businesses  critical information is stored in e-mail and attachments. yahoo s software can also work separately on the desktop  searching for music  photos and other files. users can search under a variety of criteria  including file name  size  date and time. it doesn t yet incorporate web searching  although yahoo has promised that future versions will allow users to search both web-based and desktop data.  we are all getting more and more files on our desktop but the real commercial opportunity lies with linking this through to web content   said julian smith  an analyst with research firm jupiter.  it is all about extending the idea of search and getting a closer relationship with consumers by organising not just how they search on the internet but the files on your computer as well   he said. search engines are often the first port of call for users when they go onto the web. the new foray into desktop search has rung alarm bells for human rights groups  concerned about the implications to privacy. and not everyone is impressed with the functionality of such services. alexander linden  vice president of emerging technologies at analyst firm gartner downloaded the google product but has since removed it.  it was just not very interesting   he said. he believes the rush to enter the desktop business is just a way of keeping up with rivals.  desktop search is just one of many features people would like but i m suspicious of its usefulness   he said. more useful would be tools that can combine internet  intranet and desktop search alongside improvements to key word searching  he said.
web radio takes spanish rap global spin the radio dial in the us and you are likely to find plenty of spanish-language music. but what you will not find is much spanish-language hip-hop.  hip-hop and rap are actually quite popular in the spanish-speaking world  but local artists are having trouble marketing their work abroad. but now  a us company is bringing rap and hip-hop en espanol to computer users everywhere. los caballeros de plan g are one of mexico s hottest hip-hop acts. they have a devoted fan base in their native monterrey. but most mexican hip-hop fans  not to mention fans in most of the spanish-speaking world  rarely get a chance to hear the group s tracks on the radio.   you can t really just go on the radio and listen to hip-hop in spanish... it s just not accessible   says manuel millan  a native of san diego  california.  it s really hard for the spanish hip-hop scene to get into mainstream radio. you usually have a very commercialised sound and the groups are not really known around the country or around the world.  millan and two friends set out to change that - they wanted to make groups like los caballeros de plan g accessible to fans globally.  mainstream radio stations were not going to play this kind of music  and starting their own broadcast station was economically impossible. so  millan and his friends launched a website called latinohiphopradio.com. the name says it all: it is web-based radio  devoted to the hottest spanish language rap and hip-hop tracks. the site  which is in both in english and spanish  is meant to be easy to navigate. all the user has to do is download a media player. there are no djs. it is just music streamed over the net for free. suddenly  with the help of the website  los caballeros de plan g are producing  export quality  rap.  the web might be just the right medium for spanish language hip-hop right now. the genre is in what millan calls its  infant stage . but the production values are improving  and artists such as argentina s mustafa yoda are pushing to make it better and better. mustafa yoda is currently one of the hottest tracks on latinohiphopradio.com.  he s considered the eminem of argentina  and the latin american hip-hop scene   millan says.  he really hasn t had that much exposure as far as anywhere in the world  but he s definitely the one to look out for as far as becoming the next big thing in the spanish-speaking world.  currently  the chilean group makisa is also in latinohiphopradio.com s top 10  as is cuban artist papo record.  every country s got it s own cultural differences and they try to put those into their own songs   millan says. latinohiphopradio.com has been up and running for a couple of months now. the site has listeners from across the spanish speaking world. right now  mexico leads the way  accounting for about 50% of listeners. but web surfers in spain are logging in as well - about 25% of the web station s traffic comes from there. that is not surprising as many consider spain to be the leader in spanish-language rap and hip-hop. millan says that spain is actually just behind the united states and france in terms of overall rap and hip-hop production. that might be changing  though  as more and more latin american artists are finding audiences.  but one spaniard is still firmly in latinohiphopradio.com s top 10. his name is tote king and manuel millan says that he is the hip-hop leader in spain. on his track uno contra veinte emcees  or one against 20 emcees  tote king shows he is well aware of that fact.  it s basically him bragging that he s one of the best emcees in spain right now   millan says.  and it s pretty much true. he has the tightest productions  and his rap flow is impeccable  it s amazing.  latinohiphopradio.com is hoping to expand in the coming year. millan says they want to include more music and more news from the world of spanish language hip-hop and rap.  clark boyd is technology correspondent for the world  a bbc world service and wgbh-boston co-production.
india power shares jump on debut shares in india s largest power producer  national thermal power corp (ntpc) have risen 13% on their stock market debut.  the government s partial sell-off of ntpc is part of a controversial programme to privatise state-run firms. the 865 million share offer  a mix of new shares and sales by the government  raised 54bn rupees($1.2bn). it was india s second $1bn stock debut in three months  coming after the flotation by software firm tata. the share offer was eleven times oversubscribed.  it is a good investment bet   said suhas naik  an investment analyst from ing mutual fund.  power needs in india are set to rise and ntpc will benefit from that.  analysts say the success of the ntpc flotation would encourage the government to reduce stakes in more power companies. ntpc has said it will use the money from the share sale to feed the growing needs of the country s energy-starved economy. the firm is the largest utility company in india  and the sixth largest power producer in the world.
viewers to be able to shape tv imagine editing titanic down to watch just your favourite bits or cutting out the slushier moments of star wars to leave you with a bare bones action-fest.  manipulating your favourite films to make a more personalised movie is just the beginning of an ambitious new 7.5m euro (£5.1m) project funded by the european union. new media for a new millennium (nm2) will have as its endgame the development of a completely new media genre  which will allow audiences to create their own media worlds based on their specific interests or tastes. viewers will be able to participate in storylines  manipulate plots and even the sets and props of tv shows. bt is one of 13 partners involved in the project. it will be contributing software that was originally designed to spot anomalies in cctv pictures. the software uses content recognition algorithms. the three-year project will work on seven productions as it develops a set of software tools that will allow viewers to edit content to their needs.  one of the productions will be a experimental television show where the plot will be driven by text messages from the tv audience.  participants will text selected words which will impact how the characters in the drama interact. it is being developed in finland and will be shown to finnish tv audiences. another team will work on the bbc s big budget drama of mervyn peake s gothic fantasy gormenghast. it will be re-engineered to allow people to choose a variety of edited versions.  the bbc is allowing us access to the material so that we can prove the technology and the principles   explained dr doug williams of bt  who will be nm2 s technical project manager.  the tv at the moment is a relatively dumb box which receives signals. this project is about teaching the machine to look at content like lego blocks that can be reassembled to make perfect sense   he said.  at the moment we have interactive gaming and a limited form of interactive tv which usually means allowing audiences to vote on shows. we are hoping to occupy the space in-between   he added.  nm2 s co-ordinator peter stollenmayer explained that the new genre would radically alter the role of the audience.   viewers will be able to interact directly with the medium and influence what they see and hear according to their personal tastes and wishes   he said.  media users will no longer be passive viewers but become active engagers.  it will also be important that the tools are sophisticated enough to obey the complex rules of cinematography and editing said john wyver  from tv producer illuminations television limited  which is also involved in the project.  it s not just a matter of stringing together the romantic or action portions of a production   said mr wyver.  the tool has to know which bits fit together both visually  by observing the time-honoured rules that go in editing  and in terms of the story.   only then will the personalised version both make sense and be aesthetically pleasing   he added. mr wyver is planning a production entitled the golden age  about renaissance art. it will allow viewers to create a so-called media world based on their own specific areas of interest such as poetry  music and architecture. other productions that the nm2 team will make range from news  documentaries to a romantic comedy drama.
hard act to follow for outkast us rap duo outkast s trio of trophies at the mtv europe awards crowns a year of huge success for the band.  the latest triumph adds to the three grammys and four american mtv gongs won earlier in this year. andre 3000 and big boi s album speakerboxxx/the love below has been critically acclaimed since its release and sold in large quantities around the world. the double album - which saw the pair produce one disc each - topped the charts in the us at the same time as single hey ya! it took another track from the exponents of southern hip-hop - the way you move - to displace it from the top spot. the georgia pair s year of critical and commercial triumph leaves them with a tough act to follow - what can be next for a musical act that has done it all   g money  a presenter on the bbc s urban music station 1xtra  thinks a hiatus is inevitable after such a sustained period of exposure - giving the band time to think about other interests.  they might be more appearances outside the band  such as producing for other artists  while they have a number of fringe music projects.  andre 3000 would like to go into acting  so we might see him a film  while big boi already has a dog-breeding business   says the dj.   but in a couple of years they will be back with another album which will be a collaboration unlike their double cd.  their greatness has become clear with speakerboxxx/the love below. we haven t seen the last of them   he adds. outkast s musical career spans 10 years and they have enjoyed commercial and critical success in the past  with their debut southernplayalisticadillacmuzik going platinum. but it took until 2001 for the pair to score their first hit in the uk with ms jackson  while their album stakonia saw their fame spread beyond the us.  1xtra s g money says it took the latest album  released in 2003  for him to be  assured of their genius .  they have always been experimental  some of it has worked and some hasn t   he adds. but g money acknowledges that making the next move for a band that has reached a pinnacle can be tough.  what can you do next when you ve done it all   he says. with ten years of success behind them and worldwide fame  it seems that outkast is not a name that is likely to be forgotten in a hurry.
xbox 2 may be unveiled in summer details of the next generation of microsoft s xbox games console - codenamed xenon - will most likely be unveiled in may  according to reports.  it was widely expected that gamers would get a sneak preview of xbox s successor at the game developers conference (gdc) in march. but a microsoft spokeswoman confirmed that it would not be at gdc. sony  microsoft and nintendo are all expected to release their more powerful machines in the next 18 months. the next xbox console is expected to go on sale at the end of the year  but very few details about it have been released. it is thought that the machine may be unveiled at the electronic entertainment expo (e3) in los angeles  which takes place in may  according to a reuters news agency report. e3 concentrates on showing off the latest in gaming to publishers  marketers and retailers. the gdc is aimed more at game developers. microsoft chief  bill gates  used the gdc event to unveil the original xbox five years ago. since its launch  microsoft has sold 19.9 million units worldwide.  at the consumer electronics show earlier this year  there was very little mention of the next generation gaming machine. in his keynote speech  mr gates only referred to it as playing an essential part of his vision of the digital lifestyle.  but the battle between the rival consoles to win gamers  hearts and thumbs will be extremely hard-fought. sony has traditionally dominated the console market with its playstation 2. but earlier this year  microsoft said it had reached a european milestone  selling five million consoles since its european launch in march 2002. hit games like halo 2  which was released in november  helped to buoy the sales figures.  gamers are looking forward to the next generation of machines because they will have much more processing and graphical power.  they are also likely to pack in more features and technologies that make them more central as entertainment and communications hubs. although details of playstation 3  xenon  and nintendo s so-called revolution  are yet to be finalised  developers are already working on titles. rory armes  studio general manager for games giant electronic arts (ea) in europe  recently told the bbc news website in an interview that ea was beginning to get a sense of the capabilities of the new machines. microsoft had delivered development kits to ea  but he said the company was still waiting on sony and nintendo s kits. but  he added  the playstation 3 was rumoured to have  a little more under the hood [than xbox 2] .
tottenham bid &#163;8m for forest duo nottingham forest have confirmed they have received an £8m bid from tottenham for andy reid and michael dawson.  reid rejected a move to southampton after forest accepted a cash-plus-players offer while spurs had made previous bids for the 22-year-old. spurs had also made an undisclosed offer for 21-year-old defender dawson. forest chief executive mark arthur said:  we ve received an £8m bid from spurs for the two players and we re considering the offer.  southampton s offer for republic of ireland international reid comprised £3m-plus and two players - brett ormerod and darren kenton.  spurs had seen previous bids of £3m  £4m and £5m for reid rejected by the championship club.
man auctions ad space on forehead a 20-year-old us man is selling advertising space on his forehead to the highest bidder on website ebay.  andrew fisher  from omaha  nebraska  said he would have a non-permanent logo or brand name tattooed on his head for 30 days.  the way i see it i m selling something i already own; after 30 days i get it back   he told the bbc today programme. mr fisher has received 39 bids so far  with the largest bid currently at more than $322 (£171).  the winner will be able to send me a tattoo or have me go to a tattoo parlour and get a temporary ink tattoo on my forehead and this will be something they choose  a company name or domain name  perhaps their logo   he told the radio 4 programme.  on the online auction  mr fisher describes himself as an  average american joe  give or take . his sales pitch adds:  take advantage of this radical advertising campaign and become a part of history.  mr fisher said that while he would accept any brand name or logo   i wouldn t go around with a swastika or anything racial . he added:  i wouldn t go around with 666  the mark of the beast.  other than that i wouldn t promote anything socially unacceptable such as adult websites or stores.  he said he would use the money to pay college - he is planning to study graphic design. the entrepreneur said his mother was initially surprised by his decision but following all the media attention she felt he was  thinking outside the box .
egypt and israel seal trade deal in a sign of a thaw in relations between egypt and israel  the two countries have signed a trade protocol with the us  allowing egyptian goods made in partnership with israeli firms free access to american markets.  the protocol  signed in cairo  will establish what are called  qualified industrial zones  in egypt. products from these zones will enjoy duty free access to the us  provided that 35% of their components are the product of israeli-egyptian cooperation. the us describes this as the most important economic agreement between egypt and israel in two decades.  the protocol establishing the zones has been stalled for years. there has been deep sensitivity in egypt about any form of co-operation with israel as long as its peace process with the palestinians remains blocked. but in recent weeks an unusual warmth has crept into relations between the two countries. both exchanged prisoners earlier this month  with egypt handing back an israeli who has served eight years in prison after being convicted for spying.  egyptian president hosni mubarak has described israeli prime minister ariel sharon as the best chance for the palestinians to achieve peace. the government in cairo now believes mr sharon is moving towards the centre and away from the positions of right wing groups. it also believes the us  pressed by europe  is now more willing to engage seriously in the search for a settlement. but there are also pressing economic reasons for egypt s decision to enter into the trade agreement. it will give a huge boost to egyptian textile exports  which are about to suffer a drop after new regulations come into force in the us at the beginning of the year.
ireland 21-19 argentina an injury-time dropped goal by ronan o gara stole victory for ireland from underneath the noses of argentina at lansdowne road on saturday.  o gara kicked all of ireland s points  with two dropped goals and five penalties  to give the home side a 100% record in their autumn internationals. an impressive argentina appeared in control until the dying seconds. the pumas shocked the irish early on with a try from federico aramburu  and felipe contepomi kicked 14 points. the well-drilled and sharper pumas out-played and out-thought ireland in the early stages. indiscipline allowed argentina s leinster fly-half contepomi to open the scoring in the third minute with a straightforward penalty. he was on the mark again two minutes later when argentina shocked a ragged ireland with the first try of the game. ireland turned the ball over and manuel contepomi broke through an unstructured defence before feeding his midfield partner aramburu to sprint in under the posts. o gara finally got ireland on the board with a dropped goal in the ninth minute only for contepomi to rifle over his second penalty two minutes later. playing into a strong wind and rain  ireland continued to come second best in tight situations  and turnovers began to mount up against a rugged defence. o gara managed to land his second penalty in the 36th minute  but once again contepomi replied in kind four minutes into first-half injury time. the second-half started as the first had ended. o gara rifled over another penalty in the 45th minute  but contepomi matched it three minutes later. the upper-body strength of the pumas never allowed ireland to take control up front  while the three-quarters had no space to manoeuvre. ireland had to rely on o gara s boot to keep in touch rather than any contrived running plays. the munsterman landed two more penalties - one of them from 48 metres - to bring his team to within four points with 13 minutes on the clock remaining. and ireland s chance came when argentina s number eight gonzalo longo was yellow carded with six minutes to go for an offence in the line-out. o gara made no mistake as he rifled over his fifth penalty to set up a tense final few minutes. but ireland showed great composure to get themselves into a position to allow o gara to thump over a massive drop goal to complete a tremendous  if fortuitous  comeback.
european losses hit gm s profits general motors (gm) saw its net profits fall 37% in the last quarter of 2004  as it continued to be hit by losses at its european operations.  the us giant earned $630m (£481.5m) in the october-to-december period  down from $1bn in the fourth quarter of 2003. gm s revenues rose 4.7% to $51.2bn from $48.8bn a year earlier. the fourth-quarter losses at general motors europe totalled $345m  up from $66m during the same period in 2003. gm s main european brands are opel and vauxhall.  excluding special items  gm s global income from continuing operations totalled $569m during the quarter  down from $838m a year earlier. the results were in line with wall street expectations and shares in gm rose by about 1% in pre-market trade. for the whole of 2004  gm earned $3.7bn  down from $3.8bn in 2003  while its annual revenue rose 4.5% to $193bn. gm said its profits were also hit by higher healthcare costs in the us.  gm reported solid overall results in 2004  despite challenging competitive conditions in many markets around the globe   gm chairman and chief executive rick wagoner said in a statement. the company recently announced that it expected profits in 2005 to be lower than in 2004.
text message record smashed again uk mobile owners continue to break records with their text messaging  with latest figures showing that 26 billion texts were sent in total in 2004.  the figures collected by the mobile data association (mda) showed that 2.4 billion were fired off in december alone  the highest monthly total ever. that was 26% more than in december 2003. the records even surpassed the mda s own predictions  it said. every day 78 million messages are sent and there are no signs of a slow down. before december s bumper text record  the previous highest monthly total was in october 2004  when 2.3 billion were sent. text messaging is set to smash more records in 2005 too  said the mda  with forecasts suggesting a total of 30 billion for the year.  even though mobiles are becoming increasingly sophisticated with much more multimedia applications  texting is still one of the most useful functions of mobiles. people are using sms to do much more too. booking cinema tickets  text voting  and news or sports text alerts are growing popular. mobile owners have also given the chance to donate to the disasters emergency committee s (dec) asian tsunami fund by texting  donate  to a simple short code number. looking further ahead in the year  the mda s chairman mike short  has predicted that more people will go online through their mobiles  estimating 15 billion wap page impressions. handsets with gprs capability - an  always on  net connection - will rise to 75%  while 3g mobile ownership growing to five million by the end of 2005. these third generation mobiles offer a high-speed connection which means more data like video can be received on the phone. globally  mobile phone sales passed 167 million in the third quarter of 2004  according to a recent report from analysts gartner. that was 26% more than the previous year. it is predicted that there would be two billion handsets in use worldwide by the end of 2005.
opposition grows to house arrests the conservatives have expressed  serious misgivings  about government plans for keeping uk and foreign terror suspects under house arrest.  michael howard said he would not back the home secretary s plans for  control orders  which include home detention.  i do not believe that anyone should be deprived of their liberty on the say so of a politician   he said. the lib dems also oppose the proposals  but ministers insist they are proportionate to the terror threat.  the government proposed the idea and a range of other new powers after the laws lords said current detentions without trial broke human rights laws. new metropolitan police commissioner sir ian blair has backed the control orders  saying:  i m sorry. it is a dilemma  but there is only one choice.  but mr howard said:  we have serious misgivings about both their effectiveness in protecting life and their consequences for the british way of life.   he argued that people accused of terrorist offences should be brought to trial and be held in prison - not at home - while they await trial. mr howard said he feared  internment without trial creates martyrs  and could be  a very effective recruiting sergeant  for terrorists . his party plans to move an amendment to the serious organised crime and police bill next week that would give a judge responsibility for assessing evidence and ensuring a balanced case is presented to the court. he called on the prime minister to  enter into constructive discussions  with his party to find a  better way forward . controversy over the issue continues after a foreign terror suspect held in the uk without trial or charge since december 2001 was freed from jail.  home secretary charles clarke said there was not enough evidence to keep the egyptian man  known only as c  certified as a terrorist suspect. on monday  the legal team for two algerian suspects being held without trial told a court the men did not want bail if it meant being put under house arrest. most of the terror suspects are detained at belmarsh prison in london. the liberal democrats say they also oppose house arrests and questioned the human rights implications of the measure. home affairs spokesman mark oaten told bbc radio 4 s today programme:  it s a matter of principle for us that we can t have a situation where the home secretary is able to impose house detention now on uk nationals as well as foreign nationals.   the lib dems believe the home secretary should allow phone tapping evidence in prosecutions.  we think there could be a role for some form of control order - tagging  surveillance  limitation on use of mobile phones - but not with the home secretary s say so. that must be done with a proper judicial process  a judge involved in making those decisions   said mr oaten. mr clarke has rejected that idea saying intercept evidence is only a small part of the case against terror suspects and could put the lives of intelligence sources at risk. he said prosecutions were the government s first preference and promised the powers would only be used in  serious  cases  with independent scrutiny from judges.
lib dems predict  best ever poll  the lib dems are set for their best results in both the general election and the local council polls  one of their frontbenchers has predicted.  local government spokesman ed davey was speaking as the party launched its campaign for the local elections being held in 37 english council areas. the flagship pledge is to replace council tax with a local income tax. the tories say the lib dems would make people pay more tax and labour says the party s sums do not add up. looking to the coming elections  which are all expected to be held on 5 may  mr davey said:  we are going to be winning more votes and winning more seats.  i think we are going to have the best general election results and local election results we have ever had under [party leader] charles kennedy.  i couldn t think of a stronger endorsement of a leader.
when technology gets personal in 2020  whipping out your mobile phone to make a call will be quaintly pass&#233;. by then phones will be printed directly on to wrists  or other parts of the body  says ian pearson  bt s resident futurologist.  it s all part of what s known as a  pervasive ambient world   where  chips are everywhere . mr pearson does not have a crystal ball. his job is to formulate ideas based on what science and technology are doing now  to guide industries into the future. inanimate objects will start to interact with us: we will be surrounded - on streets  in homes  in appliances  on our bodies and possibly in our heads - by things that  think . forget local area networks - these will be body area networks. ideas about just how smart  small  or even invisible  technology will get are always floating around. images of devices clumsily bolted on to heads or wrists have pervaded thinking about future technology. but now a new vision is surfacing  where smart fabrics and textiles will be exploited to enhance functionality  form  or aesthetics. such materials are already starting to change how gadgets and electronics are used and designed.  so mp3 players - the mass gadget of the moment - will disappear and instead become integrated into one s clothing  says mr pearson.  so the gadgets that fill up your handbag  when we integrate those into fabric  we can actually get rid of all that stuff. you won t necessarily see the electronics.  wearable technology could exploit body heat to charge it up  while  video tattoos   or intelligent electronic contact lenses  might function as tv screens for those on the move. however  this future of highly personal devices  where technology is worn  or even fuses with the body itself  raises ethical questions. if technology is going to be increasingly part of clothing  jewellery  and skin  there needs to be some serious thinking about what it means for us as humans  says baroness susan greenfield. at a recent conference for technology  engineering  academic and fashion industry experts  at the royal society in london  neuroscientist baroness greenfield cautioned we  can t just sleepwalk into the future .  yet this technology is already upon us. researchers have developed computers and sensors worn in clothing. mp3 jackets  based on the idea that electrically conductive fabric can connect to keyboard sewn into sleeves  have already appeared in shops.  these  smart fabrics  have come about through advances in nano- and micro-engineering - the ability to manipulate and exploit materials at micro or molecular scale. at the nanoscale  materials can be  tuned  to display unusual properties that can be exploited to build faster  lighter  stronger and more efficient devices and systems. the textile and clothing industry has been one of the first to exploit nanotechnology in quite straightforward ways. many developments are appearing in real products in the fields of medicine  defence  healthcare  sports  and communications. professional swimming suits reduce drag by incorporating tiny structures similar to shark skin. nanoscale titanium dioxide (tio2) coatings give fabrics antibacterial and anti-odour properties. these have special properties which can be activated in contact with the air or uv light. such coatings have already been used to stop socks smelling for instance  to turn airline seats into super stain-resistant surfaces  and applied to windows so they clean themselves. dressings for wounds can now incorporate nanoparticles with biocidal properties and smart patches are being developed to deliver drugs through the skin. but baroness greenfield is concerned about how far this more personal contact with technology might affect our very being. if our clothing  skin  and  personal body networks  do the talking and the monitoring  everywhere we go  we have to think about what that means for our concept of privacy. mr pearson picks up the theme  pointing out there are a lot of issues humans have to iron out before we become  cyborgian . his main concern is  privacy .  we are looking at electronics which are really in deep contact with your body and a lot of that information you really don t want every passer-by to know.  so we have to make sure we build security in this. if you are wearing smart make-up  where electronics are controlling the appearance  you don t want people hacking in and writing messages on your forehead.  as technology infiltrates our biology  how will our brains function differently   we cannot arrogantly assume that the human brain will not change with this   warns baroness greenfield. there have already been successful experiments to grow human nerve cells on circuit boards. this paves the way for brain implants to help paralysed people interface directly with computers. clearly  the organic  carbon of our bodies and silicon is increasingly merging. the cyborg - a very familiar part-human  part-inorganic science fiction and academic idea - is on its way.
jp morgan admits us slavery links thousands of slaves were accepted as collateral for loans by two banks that later became part of jp morgan chase.  the admission is part of an apology sent to jp morgan staff after the bank researched its links to slavery in order to meet legislation in chicago. citizens bank and canal bank are the two lenders that were identified. they are now closed  but were linked to bank one  which jp morgan bought last year. about 13 000 slaves were used as loan collateral between 1831 and 1865.  because of defaults by plantation owners  citizens and canal ended up owning about 1 250 slaves.  we all know slavery existed in our country  but it is quite different to see how our history and the institution of slavery were intertwined   jp morgan chief executive william harrison and chief operating officer james dimon said in the letter.  slavery was tragically ingrained in american society  but that is no excuse.   we apologise to the african-american community  particularly those who are descendants of slaves  and to the rest of the american public for the role that citizens bank and canal bank played.   the slavery era was a tragic time in us history and in our company s history.  jp morgan said that it was setting up a $5m scholarship programme for students living in louisiana  the state where the events took place. the bank said that it is a  very different company than the citizens and canal banks of the 1800s .
bollywood draws global stars british actress antonia bernath is making her debut in kisna - the warrior poet  marking a growing trend for non-indian stars to appear in bollywood films.  directed by bollywood veteran subhash ghai  the film is set in the british raj and bernath plays an army general s daughter who falls in love with a rural boy  kisna.  i liked the fluid nature of film-making. we improvised quite a lot   says bernath.  at times it felt very chaotic but mr ghai was quite clear about what he wanted.  picked from more than 200 girls in an audition in london  bernath cut short her education at bristol s old vic theatre school to take up the opportunity. it is not often that somebody gets to play the lead role straight out of a drama school. she spent three weeks learning hindi and taking dance lessons.  initially  i was a bit sceptical about how people would respond to me   bernath says.  but i found the hindi film industry very warm and encouraging. i even had a few offers before the work on kisna was completed.   films are one of india s biggest exports and those like lagaan and monsoon wedding have broken the traditional boundaries of colour and culture. spurred by this  bollywood producers are trying to go global in all aspects of film-making  be it technical or artistic.  from young heart-throbs like nick moran of lock  stock and two smoking barrels to model sophie dahl  many non-indian stars want to make the most of this opportunity.  bollywood has truly gone global   says taran adarsh  editor of indian film journal trade guide.  directors are now attempting to woo non-asian audience to increase their share in the overseas film market.  kisna has been shot simultaneously in hindi and english  with the english print shortened by an hour to accommodate the western audience. the film even has a song composed in english by ar rahman  the director of the popular west end musical  bombay dreams.  identification is a popular cinematic device. use of european or american actors can be viewed as a step in that direction   says adarsh.  the cast of kisna also includes british actors michael maloney  caroline langrishe and polly adams.  another actress  annabelle wallace  plays the lead role in a bilingual romantic comedy dil jo bhi kahey (whatever the heart says)  which also stars indian screen legend amitabh bachchan. actor and producer aamir khan s forthcoming venture the rising is set against the backdrop of the indian mutiny of 1857  with british actor toby stephens in a key role. but it isn t only the western actors looking eastwards. bollywood sweetheart aishwarya rai  recently seen in bride and prejudice alongside new zealand actor martin henderson  is building her international career. and  many other bollywood stars have their eyes set on hollywood.  hollywood or bollywood  it s the box office that determines whether something is a passing phase or a trend   says adarsh.  kisna - the warrior poet opens in the uk on 21 january.
soaring oil  hits world economy  the soaring cost of oil has hit global economic growth  although world s major economies should weather the storm of price rises  according to the oecd.  in its latest bi-annual report  the oecd cut its growth predictions for the world s main industrialised regions. us growth would reach 4.4% in 2004  but fall to 3.3% next year from a previous estimate of 3.7%  the oecd said. however  the paris-based economics think tank said it believed the global economy could still regain momentum.  forecasts for japanese growth were also scaled back to 4.0% from 4.4% this year and 2.1% from 2.8% in 2005. but the outlook was worst for the 12-member eurozone bloc  with already sluggish growth forecasts slipping to 1.8% from 2.0% this year and 1.9% from 2.4% in 2005  the oecd said. overall  the report forecast total growth of 3.6% in 2004 for the 30 member countries of the oecd  slipping to 2.9% next year before recovering to 3.1% in 2006.  there are nonetheless good reasons to believe that despite recent oil price turbulence the world economy will regain momentum in a not-too-distant future   said jean-philippe cotis  the oecd s chief economist. the price of crude is about 50% higher than it was at the start of 2004  but down on the record high of $55.67 set in late october.  a dip in oil prices and improving jobs prospects would improve consumer confidence and spending  the oecd said.  the oil shock is not enormous by historical standards - we have seen worse in the seventies. if the oil price does not rise any further  then we think the shock can be absorbed within the next few quarters   vincent koen  a senior economist with the oecd  told the bbc s world business report.  the recovery that was underway  and has been interrupted a bit by the oil shock this year  would then regain momentum in the course of 2005.  china s booming economy and a  spectacular comeback  in japan - albeit one that has faltered in recent months - would help world economic recovery  the oecd said.  supported by strong balance sheets and high profits  the recovery of business investment should continue in north america and start in earnest in europe   it added. however  the report warned:  it remains to be seen whether continental europe will play a strong supportive role through a marked upswing of final domestic demand.  the oecd highlighted current depressed household expenditure in germany and the eurozone s over-reliance on export-led growth.
musical treatment for capra film the classic film it s a wonderful life is to be turned into a musical by the producer of the controversial hit show jerry springer - the opera.  frank capra s 1946 movie starring james stewart  is being turned into a £7m musical by producer jon thoday. he is working with steve brown  who wrote the award-winning musical spend spend spend. a spokeswoman said the plans were in the  very early stages   with no cast  opening date or theatre announced.  a series of workshops have been held in london  and on wednesday a cast of singers unveiled the musical to a select group of potential investors. mr thoday said the idea of turning the film into a musical had been an ambition of his for almost 20 years. it s a wonderful life was based on a short story  the greatest gift  by philip van doren stern. mr thoday managed to buy the rights to the story from van doren stern s family in 1999  following mr brown s success with spend spend spend. he later secured the film rights from paramount  enabling them to use the title it s a wonderful life.
be careful how you code a new european directive could put software writers at risk of legal action  warns former programmer and technology analyst bill thompson.  if it gets its way  the dutch government will conclude its presidency of the european union by pushing through a controversial measure that has been rejected by the european parliament  lacks majority support from national governments and will leave millions of european citizens in legal limbo and facing the possibility of court cases against them. if the new law was about border controls  defence or even the new constitution  then our tv screens would be full of experts agonising over the impact on our daily lives. sadly for those who will be directly affected  the controversy concerns the patenting of computer programs  a topic that may excite the bloggers  campaigning groups and technical press but does not obsess middle britain. after all  how much fuss can you generate about the directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions  and the way it amends article 52 of the 1973 european patent convention  yet if the new directive is nodded through at the next meeting of one of the eu s ministerial councils  as seems likely  it will allow programs to be patented in europe just as they are in the us. many observers of the computing scene  including myself  think the results will be disastrous for small companies  innovative programmers and the free and open source software movement. it will let large companies patent all sorts of ideas and give legal force to those who want to limit their competitors  use of really obvious ideas.  in the us you cannot build a system that stores customer credit card details so that they can pay without having to re-enter them unless amazon lets you  because they hold the patent on  one-click  online purchase. it is a small invention  but amazon made it to the patent office first and now owns it.  we are relatively free from this sort of thing over here  but perhaps not for long. the new proposals go back to 2002  although argument about patentability of software and computer-implemented inventions has been going on since at least the mid-1980s. they have come to a head now after a year in which proposals were made  endorsed by the council of ministers  radically modified by the european parliament and then re-presented in their original form. some national governments seem to be aware of the problems. poland has rejected the proposal and germany s main political parties have opposed it  but there is not enough opposition to guarantee their rejection. early in december the british government held a consultation meeting with those who had commented on the proposals. science minister lord sainsbury went along to listen and outline the uk position  but according to those present  it was embarrassing to see how little the minister and his officials actually understood the issues concerned.  the draft directive is being put through the council as what is called an  a  item and can only be approved or rejected. no discussion or amendment is allowed. so why should we be worried  first  there is the abuse of the democratic process involved in disregarding the views of the parliament and abandoning all of their carefully argued amendments. this goes to the heart of the european project  and even those who do not care about software or patents should be worried. if coders are treated like this today  who is to say that it will not be you tomorrow   more directly  once software patents are granted then any programmer will have to worry that the code they are writing is infringing someone else s patent. this is not about stealing software  as code is already protected by copyright. patents are not copyright  but something much stronger. a patent gives the owner the right to stop anyone else using their invention  even if the other person invented it separately. i have never  to my shame  managed to read lord byron s childe harold s pilgrimage. if it was pointed out that one of my articles contained a substantial chunk of the poem then i could defend myself in court by claiming that i had simply made it up and it was coincidence. the same does not hold for a patent. if i sit down this afternoon and write a brilliant graphics compression routine and it happens to be the same as the lzw algorithm used in gif files  then i am in trouble under patent law  at least in the us. coincidence is no defence. the proposed directive is supported by many of the major software companies  but this is hardly surprising since most of them are us-based and they have already had to cope with a legal environment that allows patents. they have legal departments and  more crucially  patents of their own which they can trade or cross-license with other patent holders.  even this system breaks down  of course  as microsoft found out last year when they initially lost a case brought by eolas which claimed that internet explorer (and other browsers) infringed an eolas patent. that one was eventually thrown out  but only after months of uncertainty and millions of dollars. but small companies  and the free and open software movement do not have any patents to trade. much of the really useful software we use every day  programs like the apache web server  the gnu/linux operating system and the fearsomely popular firefox browser  is developed outside company structures by people who do not have legal departments to check for patent infringements. the damage to software will not happen overnight  of course. if the directive goes through it has to be written into national laws and then there will be a steady stream of legal actions against small companies and open source products. eventually someone will decide to attack linux directly  probably with some secret funding from one or two large players. the new directive will limit innovation by forcing programmers to spend time checking for patent infringements or simply avoiding working in potentially competitive areas. and it will damage europe s computer industry. we can only hope that the council of ministers has the integrity and strength to reject this bad law.  bill thompson is a regular commentator on the bbc world service programme go digital.
parmalat to return to stockmarket parmalat  the italian dairy company which went bust after an accounting scandal  hopes to be back on the italian stock exchange in july.  the firm gained protection from creditors in 2003 after revealing debts of 14bn euros ($18.34bn; £9.6bn). this was eight times higher than it had previously stated. in a statement issued on wednesday night  parmalat finanziaria detailed administrators  latest plans for re-listing the shares of the group.  as part of the re-listing on the italian stock exchange  creditors  debts are expected to be converted into shares through two new share issues amounting to more than 2bn euros. the company s creditors will be asked to vote on the plan later this year. the plan is likely to give creditors of parmalat finanziaria shares worth about 5.7% of the debts they are owed. this is lower than the 11.3% creditors previously hoped to receive. creditors of parmalat  the main operating company  are likely to see the percentage of debt they receive fall from 7.3% to 6.9%.  several former top parmalat executives are under investigation for the fraud scandal. lawmakers said on wednesday night enrico bondi  the turnaround specialist appointed by the italian government as parmalat s chief executive  spoke positively about the company during a closed-door hearing of the chamber of deputies industry commission.  bondi supplied us with elements of positive results on the industrial positions and on the history of debt which will find a point of solution through the parmalat group s quotation on the market in july   italian news agency apcom quoted several lawmakers as saying in a statement.
singer knight backs anti-gun song r&b star beverley knight said she sang on an anti-gun single after being  haunted  by the fatal 2003 shooting of two teenage girls in birmingham.  knight and drum  n  bass star roni size have released no more in a bid to reduce gun use among young people. she said she was  horrified  by the deaths of charlene ellis  18  and letisha shakespeare  17. size  whose new forms album won the 1997 mercury music prize  said gun use was  nothing to be glamorised .  there were more than 10 500 firearms offences and 70 gun crime deaths in england and wales between june 2003 and 2004  according to home office figures. knight said the scale of the problem became clear to her after the 2003 shootings in aston  near knight s birmingham home.   it haunted me to be honest  it haunted my sleep   she said. size became involved after two friends  donna small and asha jama  were shot in his bristol hometown in october. jama  25  lost her sight in one eye while 22-year-old small suffered serious head injuries. size said he collaborated on the single  which was released on monday  because he has  a bird s eye view of what s going on .  over the last 10 years  i have seen a lot of things happen and it is nothing to be glamorised  it really isn t   he said.
observers to monitor uk election ministers will invite international observers to check the forthcoming uk general election is fairly run.  the move comes amid claims the poll could be marred by electoral fraud. a report by two mps committees called on thursday for urgent changes to the electoral registration system to combat vote rigging and boost turnout. but in a written response to labour mp gordon prentice  the government said it would normally invite observers to any uk election.  junior constitutional affairs minister christopher leslie said:  i fully expect us to repeat our previous practice of doing so once the date for the next general election is announced.  the government has looked at ways of boosting voter turnout  which fell to 59% in the last general election in 2001.  but trial all-postal ballots in four english regions last summer were hit by delays and some fraud allegations. liberal democrat peer lord greaves called last week for international observers at the general election - saying otherwise there could be months of court challenges  on a scale not seen since the 19th century . thursday s report was drawn up by two committees scrutinising the work of the office of the deputy prime minister (odpm) and the department for constitutional affairs (dca). it said that  with the growth of postal voting  there was a strong case to tighten up fraud protection by requiring voters to register individually  rather than by household. it also said about three million people eligible to vote are not registered to do so.  figures for the 2001 general election suggest 29% of people aged between 18 and 24  and 19% of black voters were not on the electoral roll. young people in shared accommodation are thought to miss out because no one acts as head of the household to fill in the form. odpm committee chairman andrew bennett said individual voter registration  as opposed to registration by household  should be quickly introduced as it could  dramatically reduce the chances of fraud . but his counterpart on the dca committee  alan beith  said it should be delayed  until measures likely to increase registration have been put in place and proved effective.  shadow constitutional affairs secretary oliver heald accused the government of  dragging its feet  over  this badly needed measure .  it is vital that we move ahead with the northern ireland system of individual electoral registration to safeguard the integrity of the britain s electoral system   he said.  the report said individual registration should be treated carefully as 12% of voters disappeared from the electoral roll in northern ireland when it was introduced in 2002. the report said the government should consider fines for unregistered voters  but accepted many experts said it would be an expensive system that would be hard to enforce. it said incentives to register  such as £20 council tax rebate  were likely to be seen as  gimmicks  and risked undermining the integrity of the system  mps said. instead they called for  imaginative campaigns  to boost interest.
uk needs tax cuts  tories insist a major change of direction is needed in britain if it is to prosper  the shadow chancellor said as the tory party spring conference began.  oliver letwin said the uk could not compete with other countries without the £4bn tax cuts he was promising. tory co-chairman liam fox had opened the forum in brighton with an attack on labour s record and party leader michael howard is due to speak later. tony blair has said conservative policies would cause economic failure. but mr letwin said britain had fallen from fourth to 11th in the international economic competitiveness league.   can this country compete  can this country prosper  unless we do something about the burden of regulation and tax on our economy   he said.  if we are going to take on the great challenges  the challenges like those posed by the chinese and the indians  we have got to do something about getting down the burden of regulation and getting down the burden of tax   he said.  the fact is the very carefully costed  fully funded plans we have laid out for saving £12bn by 2007-2008 are absolutely crucial to delivering an economy that will prosper and provide people with jobs and indeed provide the public services with the money they need on a sustainable long-term basis.  mr letwin said voting for labour meant choosing higher taxes  borrowing and waste.  earlier  dr fox had said labour s rule had been characterised by  lost trust and failure to deliver . he also attacked the government s  failure  to control immigration and asylum and criticised its record on the nhs  telling delegates labour cannot be trusted on education or crime. a tory government would sort out the  shambles  of immigration  put patients before statistics and bring discipline to schools  he said. michael howard  who had been due to welcome delegates to the conference on friday  will address them in a lunchtime speech. his welcome address had to be postponed after he stayed in london to lead the party s opposition to the prevention of terrorism bill in its lengthy progress through parliament. the bill was finally passed on friday evening  after more than 30 hours of debate. mr howard is likely to defend his party s handling of the bill  which was only passed after the conservatives accepted prime minister tony blair s promise that mps would be able to review it within a year.
prutton poised for lengthy fa ban southampton s david prutton faces a possible seven-match ban when he goes before the football association.  the 23-year-old has admitted two charges of improper conduct following his dismissal against arsenal. the first charge relates to his failure to leave the field promptly  pushing referee alan wiley and remonstrating with assistant referee paul norman. and the second charge is for using threatening words and/or behaviour to a match official during the 1-1 draw.  paolo di canio was given a seven-match suspension when he pushed referee paul alcock over in a premiership game between sheffield wednesday and arsenal in 1998. prutton will be joined at wednesday s hearing by saints boss harry redknapp  who believes that the fa will throw the book at his player. redknapp himself sprinted along the touchline to help physio jim joyce and coach denis rofe shepherd the enraged prutton away from referee s assistant norman.  david has made a big mistake and he knows it. i can t condone what he s done. he was out of order but he knows that   said redknapp.  he s a decent lad. he over-reacted badly for some reason - he had a rush of blood from somewhere. off the pitch you couldn t meet a nicer lad.  prutton has apologised publicly for his actions and to arsenal s robert pires  who was injured in a wild tackle by the saints  midfield man.  he said:  it s an horrendous situation. i apologise to the ref and linesman  who were only doing their job.  i ve also seen what happened to pires  leg and i m sorry for that as well.   i apologise for the people who saw it. i know you get lots of kids going to the match now and they don t pay money to see that sort of thing.  it s not a cop-out  but it was all a bit of a blur. sometimes you react and it s beyond your control    added prutton.
sa return to mauritius top seeds south africa return to the scene of one of their most embarrassing failures when they face the seychelles in the cosafa cup next month.  last year bafana bafana were humbled in the first by minnows mauritius who beat them 2-0 in curepipe. coach stuart baxter and his squad will return to curepipe face the seychelles in their first game of the new-look regional competition. the format of the event has been changed this year after the entry of the seychelles  who have taken the number of participants to 13. the teams are now divided into three group of four and play knock-out matches on successive days to determine the group champions. mauritius host the first group  and their opponents are madagascar  the seychelles and south africa. bafana bafana play the seychelles before mauritius take on madagascar in a double-header on 26 february. the two winners return to the new george v stadium the next day and the victor of the group decider advances to august s final mini-tournament. the second group will be hosted in namibia in april. it comprises zimbabwe  botswana  mozambique and the hosts. in june  former champions zambia will host lesotho  malawi and swaziland in the third group in lusaka. the three group winners will then join title holders angola for the last of the mini-tournaments in august  where the winners will be crowned.  seychelles v south africa  mauritius v madagascar  winners meet in final match  mozambique v zimbabwe  namibia v botswana  winners meet in final match  lesotho v malawi  zambia v swaziland  winners meet in final match
mps assess scots fishing industry a group of mps are on a two-day fact-finding mission to scotland to gather evidence for a report into the uk s fishing industry.  members of westminster s environment  food and rural affairs committee will be touring fish markets and talking to fish processors. they will also talk to fisheries minister ross finnie and scientists. mps are deciding whether to recommend a new system of  community quotas  to conserve fish stocks. the aim is that fishing ports like peterhead or fraserburgh would be allocated a quota and local people would decide how to fish it. the scheme is a variation on the local management committees already being established by the european union.  details are contained in a royal commission report for the uk government  along with the more controversial idea of closing some mixed fishing grounds completely. six members of the committee will be in scotland to seek views from fishermen and processors in aberdeen and peterhead. they will also speak to mr finnie  representatives of the royal society and the sea fish industry authority. committee chairman austin mitchell said some way has to be found of harvesting mixed fisheries without wasting stocks.
commons hunt protest charges eight protesters who stormed the house of commons chamber during a debate on the hunting bill have been charged with disorderly conduct.  the men were arrested in september after bursting into the chamber causing a hunting ban debate to be halted. those charged included otis ferry  the 22-year-old son of rock star bryan ferry and luke tomlinson  27  a close friend of princes william and harry. they were charged under section 5 of the public order act  police said.  five of the eight men held an impromptu news conference outside charing cross police station on monday evening  after the charges were formerly put to them. the men s solicitor matthew knight  said that at no time had it occurred to the men that they were committing a criminal offence.   there is no offence of trespassing in the house of commons - it is not a criminal offence   he said.  if parliament wanted to make entering the house of commons chamber on foot a criminal offence it should have done so  but it can t do so retrospectively.  we are not prosecuted for that. we are prosecuted for a public order act offence. we are not guilty of it.  they will appear at bow street magistrates  court on 21 december  a police spokesman said. otis ferry  a former eton pupil and joint leader of the south shropshire hunt  said:  i have no regrets.  we have done nothing wrong beyond the obvious which was to stand up for our rights and not act like a sheep like the rest of the country.  one of the men  david redvers  34  from hartpury  gloucestershire  said he and the other seven protesters would plead not guilty to the charges.  the other protesters are john holliday  37  a huntsman from ledbury  herefordshire  robert thame  34  who plays polo with princes charles in team highgrove  auctioneer andrew elliot  42  from bromesberrow  near ledbury  point-to-point jockey richard wakeham  34  from york  and former royal chef nick wood  41. the 15 september protest came on the same day as a huge pro-hunting demonstration in parliament square. four of the men ran out from behind the speaker s chair while another wrestled past a doorkeeper from a different entrance. the five tried to confront mps before they were bundled out of the chamber and later led away handcuffed by police. three others had been intercepted by security staff as they tried to join the five in the chamber.  speaker michael martin later said the men had used a forged letter to gain access to the house of commons and had been helped to get close to the chamber by a parliamentary pass holder. in november  the use of the parliament act meant a total ban on hunting with dogs in england and wales. however  many pro-hunt activists remained defiant after the law was passed  saying they would ignore the ban and continue to hunt. last week  the countryside alliance said more than 250 hunts would meet legally the day after the ban on hunting with dogs comes into force. the alliance said the 19 february meets would show the new law was  impossibly difficult to determine  and open to different interpretations.
parties  plans for council tax anger at council tax rises spilled over into mass protests in 2003  when the average english bill rose 12.9%.  pensioners  protests spread - some marched  others simply refused to pay the increase. some  such as 83-year-old elizabeth winkfield  said they would rather go to jail. the audit commission found the whole local government finance system was  fundamentally flawed  and all three of the main parties have said the system has to change.  labour says it wants to retain the property-based tax but reform it to make it fairer and says there is scope for councils to become more efficient. they say they are already helping pensioners with council tax bills  with a £100 lump sum for the over-70s and last year the government capped some local councils  budgets to keep demands down. deputy prime minister john prescott has said the current system is not sustainable in the long term and said there would be  radical reform . the party says this year s increases will be the lowest in a decade. a report last year looked at increasing the number of council tax bands and other forms of local taxation  such as reformed business rates  although no decisions have been made. an independent inquiry into its findings  the lyons review  is due to report back at the end of 2005.  the tories have promised a reduction on bills for pensioners  who they say have been hardest hit by year-on-year increases in council tax. they say they can save £4bn on  government waste   of which £1.3bn could be used to cut pensioners  bills by an average of £340. it would not be means tested  say the tories  because that would create more bureaucracy and could discourage people from saving for their retirement. instead households where council tax payers are over 65 would get a rebate covering half their bill  up to a maximum of £500. the tories also say they are suspicious about any proposals to revalue homes - currently graded according to their value in 1991 - because they believe seven million of homes could move up a band.  the liberal democrats want to do away with the council tax altogether and switch to a local income tax of the kind seen in the usa  norway and switzerland. the rate would be set locally  but administered by the inland revenue which they say would save at least £300m. they say the council tax is the most unpopular and most unfair tax in britain  because it puts a  ceiling  on what the richest pay. the party says it would aim for a £5 000 tax-free personal allowance  or a £7 000 allowance for the over-65s. after that income would be taxed up to £100 000. the lib dems say their plan is fairer  more efficient  has already been tested abroad and offers more accountability.
what now for kelly holmes  last april  kelly holmes spoke to the bbc sport website about her loneliness  her fight to stay fit and her decision not to contest both the 800m and 1500m at the olympics.  it just goes to show even the most meticulous and measured athletes cannot predict what fate has in store for them. four months later  holmes stormed to double olympic gold and has since been made a dame  won the bbc sport personality of the year and written a book whilst still finding time to coach aspiring athletes. with so much time spent in the spotlight  holmes has increasingly dropped hints that her ambition on the track has begun to wilt. and when asked about her plans for both the indoor and outdoor seasons ahead  the 34-year-old has repeatedly chosen to tick the  don t know  box. holmes has now pulled out of this weekend s european indoor championships  where she was selected for both the 800m and 1500m  because of a hamstring injury. but should we be surprised if the olympic champion over both those distances decides she just does not feel like racing anymore   well  it s a lot easier being the double olympic champion  being feted by everybody  than training to be at the top in middle distance running   points out former olympian and bbc pundit steve cram.  you have to have a real strong desire to carry on doing it even if you re very talented.   holmes  drive and determination have always been unquestionable - that is the reason she has battled back from a string of injuries that threatened to see her finish her career empty-handed. but alarm bells start ringing when the kent athlete begins questioning herself.  will i have as much commitment  desire and energy to go through a major championship   holmes asked in the new year.  that is what i don t know.  at 34  holmes will also be aware that time is running out. us 400m and 200m legend michael johnson  a five-time olympic gold medallist  retired shortly after his 34th birthday as did britain s double olympic champion decathlete daley thompson. the physical demands of the day-to-day grind will only get harder for holmes  who has already admitted she  doesn t like the training anymore.  whilst out on the circuit the allure of defeating a double olympic champion will spur her opponents on. holmes will not want to needlessly suffer the indignity of being beaten. unless she is certain she has a strong chance of winning any race  she will not step onto the track. but if the kent athlete finds the form that fuelled her ambitions last summer  there are more prizes up for grabs. the day after completing her double in athens  the 34-year-old revealed she would still like to win her first indoors title.  holmes  wish could easily be met in madrid before she goes on to prepare for the outdoor season where there are still scores to be settled  such as a first gold at the world championships in helsinki. there is just one small truth which could gnaw away at holmes  motivation - the realisation that no matter how hard she trains  nothing she wins now can surpass her achievements in athens. on the other hand  if those achievements cannot be matched shouldn t they be at least shared and celebrated   you don t get the chance very often in your career to step onto the track as the double olympic champion   agreed cram.  you want to be able to take your bow in front of the fans because it s a fantastic feeling.  i think deep down kelly wants to run. i think she will compete and run races on the circuits but whether or not she runs in the major championships is much less certain.   athletics fans had every reason to believe they would see the new-look kelly holmes tearing up the track again. after her olympic glory she emphatically denied she planned to retire. so  why is holmes dragging her heels about making a decision on where  when or whether to even bother competing again   that s just kelly   explains cram.  she s always been like that.  she enjoys people trying to guess what she is going to do next. she knows every time she makes a pronouncement now it s headline news.  kelly has to figure out for herself what it is she wants and that will be based on athletics decisions  whether she can be competitive  if she is fit enough to put her neck on the line.  and if she decides not to run again  no-one is going to turn round and say  you re making the wrong decision.
howard  truanted to play snooker  conservative leader michael howard has admitted he used to play truant to spend time with his school friends at a snooker hall.  mr howard said his time at jack s snooker hall in llanelli in the 1950s had not done him  any lasting damage . but he told the times educational supplement that truancy was  very bad  and said  firm action  was needed. mr howard also called for a return to o-levels and more classroom discipline.  mr howard eventually left llanelli grammar school - and the snooker hall - to go to cambridge university. he said:  i don t think it s done me any lasting damage. nor has it made me a snooker world champion.  there might have been some occasions when we left early of an afternoon.   i m just being honest. i think truancy is a very bad thing and that firm action should be taken to deal with it.  another player who has failed to win snooker s world championship - jimmy  the whirlwind   white - has previously admitted missing lessons  instead spending his days in smoky halls.  tony meo [another player] and me used to spend all of our spare time there   mr white said   we loved the game and the atmosphere.  school went out of the window. i went for a while and then started taking time off.  mr howard s fellow welshman ray reardon - known by his fellow professionals as  dracula  - won the snooker world championship six times  having left school at 14 to work as a miner. and terry griffiths  like mr howard from llanelli  won the tournament in 1979. it is not known whether the two of them ever clashed cues at jack s.
wenger signs new deal arsenal manager arsene wenger has signed a new contract to stay at the club until may 2008.  wenger has ended speculation about his future by agreeing a long-term contract that takes him beyond the opening of arsenal s new stadium in two years. he said:  signing a new contract just rubber-stamps my desire to take this club forward and fulfil my ambitions.  i still have so much to achieve and my target is to drive this club on. these are exciting times for arsenal.   the 55-year-old frenchman told arsenal s website www.arsenal.com:  my intention has always been clear. i love this club and am very happy here.  wenger has won the title and the fa cup three times each during his reign. chairman peter hill-wood said:  we are absolutely delighted that arsene has signed an extension to his contract.  since his arrival in 1996  he has revolutionised the club both on and off the pitch.  as well as the six major honours he s won during his time here  arsene has been a leading influence behind all the major initiatives at the club including the construction of our new training centre and also our new stadium.   the club has continued to reap the benefits of arsene s natural eye for unearthing footballing talent.  we currently have a fantastic crop of young players coming through the ranks together with a number of world-class players who are playing a wonderful brand of football.  meanwhile  arsenal director danny fiszman is looking for wenger to stay beyond 2008.  when we come towards the end of his contract we will both review the situation. i m sure we will want him to stay on and i hope he will too   said fiszman.
broadband fuels online change fast web access is encouraging more people to express themselves online  research suggests.  a quarter of broadband users in britain regularly upload content and have personal sites  according to a report by uk think-tank demos. it said that having an always-on  fast connection is changing the way people use the internet. more than five million households in the uk have broadband and that number is growing fast.  the demos report looked at the impact of broadband on people s net habits. it found that more than half of those with broadband logged on to the web before breakfast. one in five even admitted to getting up in the middle of the night to browse the web.  more significantly  argues the report  broadband is encouraging people to take a more active role online. it found that one in five post something on the net everyday  ranging from comments or opinions on sites to uploading photographs.  broadband is putting the  me  in media as it shifts power from institutions and into the hands of the individual   said john craig  co-author of the demos report.  from self-diagnosis to online education  broadband creates social innovation that moves the debate beyond simple questions of access and speed.  the demos report  entitled broadband britain: the end of asymmetry   was commissioned by net provider aol.  broadband is moving the perception of the internet as a piece of technology to an integral part of home life in the uk   said karen thomson  chief executive of aol uk   with many people spending time on their computers as automatically as they might switch on the television or radio.  according to analysts nielsen//netratings  more than 50% of the 22.8 million uk net users regularly accessing the web from home each month are logging on at high speed they spend twice as long online than people on dial-up connections  viewing an average of 1 444 pages per month. the popularity of fast net access is growing  partly fuelled by fierce competition over prices and services.
disputed nirvana box set on sale a box set featuring 68 unreleased nirvana tracks has gone on sale in the us  after years of legal wrangles.  with the lights out was intended to be released in 2001  to mark the 10th anniversary of the album nevermind. it was blocked by courtney love  the widow of nirvana frontman kurt cobain  who did not want unreleased song you know you re right on the box set. the dispute between love and surviving band members krist novoselic and drummer dave grohl was settled in 2002. work began on the box set in 1998  but legal battles put the project on hold. the legal fight centred on a studio recording of the unreleased track you know you re right  regarded by fans as one of the unreleased gems of nirvana. the set  released on tuesday  features three cds and a dvd of rare performance and rehearsal footage. the dvd also includes the first performance of smells like teen spirit  the track that launched nirvana on to the international stage in 1991.  the band wasn t always pretty  or always in tune. this is not nirvana unplugged. it s nirvana unedited   said cobain biographer charles cross. the band s development ended tragically when songwriter kurt cobain committed suicide in april 1994.
row over  police  power for csos the police federation has said it strongly opposes giving community support officers (csos) the power to detain suspects for up to 30 minutes.  the powers - piloted in six areas - were extended to all police forces in england and wales on thursday. the federation said csos do not have the experience  training and safety equipment to deal with  potentially confrontational  situations. but the government said the move would help police  build safe communities . police federation chairman jan berry said civilian officers should act as  eyes and ears  for the police.   they should not be placed in potentially confrontational situations - which detaining someone clearly is   she said. csos can now use reasonable force to detain suspects for up to 30 minutes while they wait for police officers to arrive. the powers will be granted by chief constables of local forces. ms berry said this  dramatically changes  their original purpose - to be a visible presence combating low-level crime and anti-social behaviour. she said more powers would mean more paperwork and less time on the street.  but home office minister hazel blears defended the move saying it would give the civilian officers  just that little bit of edge . she denied their role was changing and said the new powers would not take them away from the streets.   the powers that we are bringing in are things that they need to do when they are out patrolling   she said. the home office has produced its own report on csos which it describes as  encouraging . ms blears said the study shows csos are  making a real difference  in the fight against crime. but the report also showed that the public is having difficulties distinguishing between a civilian officer and a proper officer.  shadow home secretary david davis said the research appeared to acknowledge that csos were having no discernible effect on crime figures.   while the answer is a lot more real police  the government wants to recruit 25 000 people who can t arrest anyone   he said. bbc home affairs correspondent danny shaw said the research is inconclusive. there are about 3 500 csos in england and wales but the government intends to have 25 000 on the streets by 2008 at a cost of £50m. they already have powers to hand out fines for a wide range of offences. the serious organised crime and police bill proposes extra powers to search suspects  enforce licensing offences  direct traffic and deter begging.
barclays shares up on merger talk shares in uk banking group barclays have risen on monday following a weekend press report that it had held merger talks with us bank wells fargo.  a tie-up between barclays and california-based wells fargo would create the world s fourth biggest bank  valued at $180bn (£96bn). barclays has declined to comment on the report in the sunday express  saying it does not respond to market speculation. the two banks reportedly held talks in october and november 2004.  barclays shares were up 8 pence  or 1.3%  at 605 pence by late morning in london on monday  making it the second biggest gainer in the ftse 100 index. uk banking icon barclays was founded more than 300 years ago; it has operations in over 60 countries and employs 76 200 staff worldwide. its north american divisions focus on business banking  whereas wells fargo operates retail and business banking services from 6 000 branches. in 2003  barclays reported a 20% rise in pre-tax profits to £3.8bn  and it has recently forecast similar gains in 2004  predicting that full year pre-tax profits would rise 18% to £4.5bn. wells fargo had net income of $6.2bn in its last financial year  a 9% increase on the previous year  and revenues of $28.4bn. barclays was the focus of takeover speculation in august  when it was linked to citigroup  though no bid has ever materialised. stock market traders were sceptical that the latest reports heralded a deal.  the chief executive would be abandoning his duty if he didn t talk to rivals  but a deal doesn t seem likely   reuters quoted one trader as saying.
singer christina aguilera to wed pop star christina aguilera is to marry music executive jordan bratman  the singer s agent has confirmed.  bratman  26  proposed to grammy-winning singer aguilera  23  on holiday at an undisclosed location. the pair have been together for more than two years.  no wedding plans have been set yet   said aguilera s agent meghan prophet. aguilera burst onto the pop scene in 1999  winning a best new artist grammy in 2000. her hits include what a girl wants  dirrty and beautiful. bratman presented his fiancee with a diamond ring designed by jeweller stephen webster on friday  said ms prophet. new york-born aguilera reached number one in the uk with her debut hit genie in a bottle in october 1999. her early success was cemented by two further grammys in subsequent years. in 2002  aguilera won best pop collaboration for the hit track lady marmalade with lil  kim  maya and pink  and last year she picked up the award for best female pop vocal performance for beautiful. her most recent single  car wash  featuring missy elliott  reached number four in the uk charts last november.
uk rebate  unjustified  - chirac french president jacques chirac has called the uk s £3bn rebate from the european union  unjustified .  speaking after a summit meeting he said unless it was put up for discussion the eu would never be able to reach agreement on its medium term finances. earlier foreign secretary jack straw said the uk was prepared to veto any bid to reduce the rebate secured by margaret thatcher in 1984. he said it remained justified because less eu farm money came to the uk.  mr chirac told reporters in brussels:  one can only have a reasonable budgetary balance if we put back on the table the british cheque. it can no longer be justified. it was from the past.  but a uk government official responded:  even with the rebate  the uk pays two and a half times more than france contributes to the eu budget. without it we would pay 14 times as much as france.  there can be no deal on future financing which does not protect the rebate.   the 25-member eu is gearing up for tough negotiations on its budget plans for the period 2007-2013  with the bloc s luxembourg presidency hoping to strike a deal at a june summit. earlier conservative graham brady said the rebate was a  crucial test  of how firmly ministers were prepared to stand up for britain. eu commission president jose manuel barroso has indicated he wants the rebate to come to an end. mr straw said that as well as the veto over the rebate the uk wanted to keep a tight rein on national contributions.  the uk  france  germany  austria  the netherlands and sweden want the eu budget to be capped at 1% of member states  combined national incomes - the european commission has urged an increase to 1.26%. mr straw has said the eu commission s proposal would mean a 35% hike in the budget. shadow europe minister mr brady said:  i believe it is essential that britain keeps the rebate and i think it s a crucial test of how firmly the british government is prepared to stand up for britain internationally in europe.   the uk is already one of the biggest net contributors to the eu .  the foreign secretary meanwhile said the  justice  of the rebate remained.  we have one of the lowest net receipts of any eu country because of the relatively small size of our agriculture sector and its efficiency.  that continues to be the case.   uk independence party leader roger knapman said the rebate was  set in stone  and there was no reason to negotiate about it.  it is extraordinary to do it at this time  just as we are becoming the biggest contributor to the eu. if we lose our rebate as well  the british taxpayer is going to be bled at such a rate that i think everyone will go off the european project.  eu leaders are holding talks in brussels on how to re-energise the sluggish european economy. uk prime minister tony blair is meeting his eu counterparts to finalise a package of measures aimed at stimulating growth and boosting employment ahead of a series of referendums on the european constitution. the plans could introduce a free market into everything from computer services to construction. critics - including germany and france - believe liberalisation could result in companies shifting staff to cheaper bases in eastern europe  undercutting large eu economies and undermining social protections. there are also concerns about the number of workers from eastern european countries who will head west  exacerbating the already high unemployment levels in germany.  mr straw insisted there was nothing to fear from the services directorate.  european countries overall have benefited hugely from the free market in goods   he said.  what we are now talking about is developing that market into an internal market in services.  britain s low unemployment meant there was less  neurosis  about people coming from eastern european countries.  in countries like germany and france  where frankly because of a tighter social market they have much higher levels of unemployment  there is increasing anxiety about other people coming in   he said.
court rejects $280bn tobacco case a us government claim accusing the country s biggest tobacco companies of covering up the effects of smoking has been thrown out by an appeal court.  the demand for $280bn (£155bn) - filed by the clinton administration in 1999 - was rejected in a 2-1 decision. the court in washington found that the case could not be brought under federal anti-racketeering laws. among the accused were altria group  rj reynolds tobacco  lorillard tobacco  liggett group and brown and williamson. in its case  the government claimed tobacco firms manipulated nicotine levels to increase addiction  targeted teenagers with multi-billion dollar advertising campaigns  lied about the dangers of smoking and ignored research to the contrary.  prosecutors wanted the cigarette firms to surrender $280bn in profits accumulated over the past 50 years and impose tougher rules on marketing their products. but the court of appeals for the district of columbia ruled that the us government could not sue the firms under legislation drawn up to counteract mafia infiltration of business. the tobacco companies deny that they illegally conspired to promote smoking and defraud the public. they also say they have already met many of the government s demands in a landmark $206bn settlement reached with 46 states in 1998. shares of tobacco companies closed higher after the ruling  with altria rising 5% and reynolds showing gains of 4.5%.
wales stars need a rest - ruddock wales coach mike ruddock has defended his decision not to release any of the international stars for this weekend s regional celtic league fixtures.  ruddock says the players will benefit from the rest  and their absence will give youngsters a chance to impress.  we ve got the wru charter in place now which outlines exactly what happens   ruddock told bbc wales sport.  once we re in the six nations  the players will only be released in his and the wru s best interests.  the ospreys and scarlets say they are happy to support the wales cause  but the dragons have expressed disappointment at not being able to use their national squad players in friday s game with ulster. ceri sweeney  gareth cooper  ian gough and kevin morgan have been used sparingly by ruddock in the opening two six nations wins and captain jason forster believes they would benefit from a game with the dragons.   i m sure the guys would want to come back to get some game time   forster told bbc wales sport.  it would also be a timely reminder to mike [ruddock] as to what they can do.  and the supporters want to see the star players - no disrespect to the other guys - performing on the pitch.  ruddock  though  is keen to protect his players from injury and fatigue.  at this stage  there s nothing more [the players] can do in games to impress me further.  we ve got to look at it at another angle and see the opportunities that are provided for the younger players in the region.  for example  the dragons might use james ireland this weekend. i ve been looking at the lad - he s a great prospect for the future.  french and english clubs have requested to have all their international players available which means stephen jones  gareth thomas and mefin davies will play this weekend. the majority of ireland and scotland players have also been released for provincial duty.
white prepared for battle tough-scrummaging prop julian white is expecting a resurgent wales to give him a rough ride in england s six nations opener in cardiff on saturday.  the leicester tight-head is in the form of his life  making the england number three shirt his own. but he knows wales will put his technique under immense scrutiny.  the welsh scrum is a force to be reckoned with   he told bbc sport.  they have made a lot of changes for the better over the last few years.  white is also impressed with the welsh pack s strength in depth.  gethin jenkins is starting at loose-head for them. he has played a bit at tight-head but i think his favoured position is loose-head and he is very good   he added. the 31-year-old has made a massive contribution to the england and leicester cause of late and is arguably the form tight-head prop in the world.  he destroyed south africa s os du randt in the scrum at twickenham last autumn to give england the platform for an impressive 32-16 victory. leicester  who signed white from bristol when the west country side were relegated from the zurich premiership in the summer of 2003  have also been aided by white s presence this season. the tigers are sitting pretty at the top of the premiership table and have also booked their place in the last eight of the heineken cup.  i am pleased with my form   he said.  but my form is helped by the people i play with at leicester - people like martin johnson and graham rowntree.  it s been a good season so far and to be in the starting xv for the first game of the six nations is what every player wants.  i am delighted with the way things have gone but we have to get it right this weekend.  white is now one of the more experienced members of the england squad which takes to the field on saturday. injuries have taken their toll and coach andy robinson has been deprived of richard hill  jonny wilkinson  martin corry  mike tindall  will greenwood and stuart abbott.  and with 27 caps and a world cup winner s medal to his name  white is now in a position to offer his experience to youngsters such as centres matthew tait and jamie noon.  i don t know how much experience a tight-head can give a centre but you are there to give them a pat on the back if things go wrong or to be there if they want to talk in any way   he added.  when i first came into the squad  people like jason leonard and martin johnson were the first to come over and talk through things and help out.   it gives you a lot of confidence when people like that speak to you.  i was in awe of a lot of them so to sit down and speak with them and realise you are on the same wavelength is good.  white missed the vast majority of last year s six nations because of a knee injury and is raring for the 2005 event to get going. and that is despite the opening game taking place amid the red-hot atmosphere in cardiff.  i enjoy the atmosphere. the millennium stadium is probably one of the best stadiums in the world   he said.  to go down there and hear the shouting and the singing - it s one of my favourite places to play.  this is probably the most even six nations for a long time. england  ireland  france and wales are all contenders.  on form  ireland should be favourites but you just don t know - that s the great thing about this tournament.
cairn energy in indian gas find shares in cairn energy rose 3.8% to 1 088 pence on tuesday after the uk firm announced a fresh gas discovery in northern india.  the firm  which last year made a number of other new finds in the rajasthan area  said the latest discovery could lead to large gas volumes. however  chief executive bill gammell cautioned that additional evalution was first needed at the site. cairn has also been granted approval to extend its rajasthan exploration area. this approval has come from the indian government.  a spokesman said the company s decision to carry out further investigations at the new find showed that it believed there was significant gas. but he added:  it s still too early to say what the extent of it is.  cairn s string of finds in rajasthan last year saw it elevated to the ftse 100 index of the uk s leading listed companies. the company had bought the rights to explore in the area from oil giant shell. mr gammell is a former scottish international rugby player.
wenger keeping faith with almunia arsene wenger has pledged to keep faith with stand-in keeper manuel almunia for the crunch week which could define arsenal s season.  almunia will start tuesday s champions league group tie against rosenborg and is likely to face chelsea on sunday. wenger said:  you don t think i would take out one goalkeeper for just one game  do you  i don t do that.  i have to give him a run for a few games. it s just that i don t want to make this story bigger than it is.  wenger insists he has complete faith in the 27-year-old spaniard  who was signed last summer from celta vigo as back-up to jens lehmann.   if you look at my career  you will see that i have left many big players out for a long time. i ve done it with dennis bergkamp  kanu  everybody.  it s because it s a goalkeeper  that s all. it s a usual situation for me. you put your best team out  no matter who it is.  for me  it was not a big mistake at old trafford and i wasn t alarmed by what happened against birmingham either.  it s nothing against lehmann. i think he s a great keeper  as is almunia. you can only play one of them.  these people are not robots - they have good periods and less good periods. just because lehmann doesn t play for two or three weeks  or longer or shorter  it doesn t mean i ve lost faith in him.   but former arsenal keeper david seaman believes lehmann has been harshly treated. seaman told the daily mail:  jens is a fantastic keeper. he deserves another chance.  he has made a few mistakes but on form he deserves to be the first-team choice.  with arsenal hit by injuries and suspension  inexperienced midfield pair of mathieu flamini and cesc fabregas will line up against rosenborg but wenger is confident they will prove more than capable.  it puts a lot of pressure on them but it s a good learning process   said wenger.  i m not worried as they are both mentally strong and will put in the needed workrate.   the gunners go into the game boosted by the news that defender sol campbell is on the verge of signing a new deal with the club. and the 30-year-old  whose current contract runs out in the summer  has made it clear he is determined to achieve champions league success with arsenal. campbell said:  it means a lot to me to go through  it s everything. we want to carry on in this competition.  that s where the best teams in europe are. to be in there  playing against these guys and trying to win the trophy  is the first thing in my mind.   meanwhile  thierry henry believes he will be blamed if arsenal fail to qualify for the next stage of the champions league. henry will captain the side in place of the suspended patrick vieira as the gunners seek the required victory over rosenborg. and the striker said:  if we don t win and we go out of the competition  like it or not  it s going to be my fault. that s the way it is.  if the team don t win i know i will be criticised  no matter how i play.
joy division story to become film the life of late joy division singer ian curtis is to be made into a film  it has been announced.  the manchester-based production is called touching from a distance  after a book by curtis s widow deborah which forms the basis for the film. music mogul tony wilson  who headed the record company joy division were signed to  will be co-executive producer. the musician committed suicide in 1980 aged 23  shortly before the band were due to go on tour in the us. mr wilson  who has remained friends with curtis s widow and daughter natalie  who he says asked for his involvement to make the film  official .  people have different ideas as to why ian committed suicide  so maybe the film will reflect those different views   he told the bbc news website.  plans for a separate joy division film had been announced at the cannes film festival earlier this year  but the project did not get off the ground as it failed to get the backing of curtis s family. mr wilson  who was also involved with joy division s sucessor band new order  as well as the happy mondays  said he would  rather not  appear in the film. he made a cameo appearance in 24 hour party people  in which his leading role was played by steve coogan.  i m not an actor and i did a lousy job playing my part in 24 hour party people   said the factory records founder  who has been associated with the manchester music scene since the 1970s.  film people have a tendency to mess up when they touch music  but i hope this one works.   this is much more than the music - they want to do the real story of ian   he said. the film is to be directed by dutch-born anton corbijn  who has made music movies for depeche mode and u2. it will be produced by a us production company  while the widow of ian curtis will also be an executive producer.
top stars join us tsunami tv show brad pitt  robert de niro and hugh grant have been added to the line-up for a two-hour us tv special to raise money for victims of the asian tsunami.  andy garcia  lucy liu  natalie portman and jay leno are also among the new names for saturday s tsunami aid. they will join a-list singers madonna  sir elton john  nelly and usher plus actors kevin spacey  halle berry and george clooney on the nbc broadcast. viewers will be urged to phone in to make donations throughout the night. norah jones  diana ross  stevie wonder  maroon 5  mary j blige and eric clapton will give musical performances on the show described as  a concert of hope .  catherine zeta jones  michael douglas  bruce willis  uma thurman  matt damon  drew barrymore and tim robbins are among the other movie superstars due to put in an appearance. george clooney recently reacted angrily to a tv host s suggestion that not all funds raised would go towards tsunami relief. fox tv s bill o reilly said he would be  watching to see if the money gets to the tsunami victims  and warned the celebrities taking part  had better be involved all the way down the line . but clooney accused o reilly of creating a fuss for his own personal gain  saying viewers may now be  afraid that their money will do no good .  he urged o reilly to co-present the tv special  adding in a letter:  we re not playing games here  we re trying to save lives. it s as simple as this - you re either with this joint effort or against it.  organisers say all funds will go to the american red cross. the commercial-free benefit show will also be aired by a string of cable broadcasters and clear channel s radio stations across the us. in addition  performances will be available to buy on the internet as downloads from sony s connect music store. a similar tv benefit carried by all four primary us tv networks after the 11 september terror attacks raised more than $150m (£80m).    - the bangkok international film festival got under way on thursday in the thai capital in the shadow of the country s 5 300 deaths from the tsunami. the red carpet gala opening night was ditched in favour of a more subdued first night. six different films were shown at six cinemas  with all money from ticket sales going to charity.
actor foxx sees globe nominations us actor jamie foxx has been given two nominations for golden globe awards  with meryl streep  morgan freeman and cate blanchett also up for prizes.  the stars were shortlisted on monday for supporting roles  with the main nominations still to come. foxx has starred in collateral and ray. clive owen  david carradine and natalie portman are also up for awards. the golden globes  hollywood s second most prominent awards  are the first major nominations to be announced. last year  the lord of the rings: the return of the king was named best drama movie while lost in translation won best musical or comedy. sean penn  charlize theron  tim robbins and renee zellweger all won acting awards - mirroring the eventual oscars outcome. the golden globes ceremony will take place on 16 january  with the oscars following on 27 february.
double eviction from big brother model caprice and holby city actor jeremy edwards have both left the celebrity big brother house in a surprise double eviction on friday.  caprice  who left in the scheduled fourth eviction having gained just 5% of the public vote  afterwards said:  i am so happy  i am so glad i m out.  edwards then left in a surprise eviction  with 12% of the vote. nineteen-year-old blazin  squad singer kenzie is currently favourite to win the £50 000 charity prize. caprice had been the pre-show favourite to be voted out of the house  with bookmakers ladbrokes offering odds of 1/5 on her departure. ladbrokes spokesman warren lush had said she was  the hottest eviction favourite so far this series .  odds on kenzie s victory have been slashed from 4/6 to 1/2  although bookmakers have said they are not ruling out a late rally from former happy mondays star bez. the other remaining housemate is actress brigitte nielsen. dj lisa i anson became the third housemate to be voted out on wednesday when she became the victim of a surprise eviction during a game of hide-and-seek on the channel 4 show. i anson said she was  glad to be out  and predicted that kenzie would emerge as the winner. the winner is due to be announced on sunday night.
fast lifts rise into record books two high-speed lifts at the world s tallest building have been officially recognised as the planet s fastest.  the lifts take only 30 seconds to whisk passengers to the top of the 508m tall tfc 101 tower in taipei  taiwan. the guinness book of records has declared the 17m per second speed of the two lifts the swiftest on earth. the lifts also have a pressure control system to stop passengers  ears popping as they ascend and descend at high speed.  in total  the tfc tower has 61 lifts  34 of them double-deckers  and 50 escalators to shuttle people around its 106 floors. the tfc 101 tower is due to be officially opened on 31 december.  the super-fast lifts can speed up to 24 passengers to the tip of the tower in about 30 seconds  while ascending their 382m track. the 17m/s top speed of the lifts translates to about 38mph (61km/h). curiously the lifts take longer to descend and spend almost a whole minute returning to ground level from the top of the tfc tower. the key new technologies applied in the world s fastest elevators include:    - a pressure control system  which adjusts the atmospheric pressure inside a car by using suction and discharge blowers  preventing  ear popping    - an active control system which tries to balance the lift more finely and remove the sources of vibrations   - streamlined cars to reduce the whistling noise produced by running the lifts at a high speed inside a narrow shaft      the certification of our elevators as world record-holders by the authoritative guinness world records is a great honour for us   said masayuki shimono  president of manufacturer toshiba elevator and building systems which installed the lifts. the first record for the world s fastest passenger elevators was published in the first edition of the guinness book of records in 1955.  as such  it is an interesting indicator of how technology has advanced in the 50 years since that first edition  when the record was 426m per minute  or 25.6 km/h  less than half the speed of the new record   said hein le roux  specialist researcher at the guinness world records. taipei s tfc 101 tower is more than 50m taller than the petronas towers in kuala lumpur  malaysia - formerly the world s tallest skyscraper.
faith schools citizenship warning schools must improve the quality of citizenship lessons - or social cohesion and democracy will suffer  says the education watchdog.  independent faith schools were singled out by ofsted chief  david bell  for not doing enough to promote the  wider tenets of british society . mr bell said muslim  jewish and evangelical christian schools must be  intolerant of intolerance . diversity  certainly must not mean segregated or separate   he said. mr bell s speech called for a much greater effort in all types of schools to teach citizenship - with an accompanying survey showing that young people knew little about politics and had no enthusiasm to find out more.  badly-taught citizenship lessons have previously been criticised by mr bell  and in a speech to the hansard society  he warned that it was failing to pass on an understanding of democracy  public service and shared values. he highlighted his particular concern for citizenship in the growing number of independent faith schools - which he said included about 100 muslim  100 evangelical christian and 50 jewish schools.  mr bell expressed concern about schools which did not teach children enough about a  common heritage  and needed to do more to promote principles of mutual tolerance and social inclusion.  i worry that many young people are being educated in faith-based schools  with little appreciation of their wider responsibilities and obligations to british society   said mr bell. the ofsted chief said his forthcoming annual report would make particular reference to muslim schools.  many must adapt their curriculum to ensure that it provides pupils with a broad general knowledge of public institutions and services in england and helps them to acquire an appreciation of and respect for other cultures in a way that promotes tolerance and harmony.  mr bell said such questions of religion and cultural identity were  tricky issues . but he argued that  we must not allow our recognition of diversity to become apathy in the face of any challenge to our coherence as a nation .  i would go further and say that an awareness of our common heritage as british citizens  equal under the law  should enable us to assert with confidence that we are intolerant of intolerance  illiberalism and attitudes and values that demean the place of certain sections of our community  be they women or people living in non-traditional relationships   said mr bell.
choose hope over fear - kennedy voters will have a clear choice between the politics of fear and the politics of hope in the next general election  said charles kennedy.  in his new year message the liberal democrat leader said labour and the conservatives were united in relying on fear and  populist scares . he said his party was the one of hope and was ready for a 2005 poll. on the asian tsunami he said it had been  very heartening  to learn of the generosity being shown by britons. mr kennedy said his thoughts were with all those caught up in the disaster  which had dominated the christmas and new year period. at home he said many people were turning to the liberal democrats as they became disheartened with the politics of the other two main parties.  the general election would be a three-party struggle  as the conservative party  fades away  as a national force and the liberal democrats challenge labour in its heartlands  he said.  a clear division is emerging in british politics - the politics of fear versus the politics of hope.  labour is counting on the politics of fear  ratcheting up talk of threats  crime and insecurity. while the conservatives are re-working their populist scares about asylum and the european  menace    he said. he said the government was using this climate of fear to try to strip away civil liberties.  it was already using detention without trial at belmarsh prison  ignoring a recent law lords judgement that this contravenes basic human rights  he said. he also criticised attempts to bring in trial without jury  plans to lower the burden of proof in some criminal trials  curbing of rights to protest  increased stop and search powers and id card plans. he said while everyone had the right to be secure they also had the right to be protected against unfair discrimination.  but at the same time  an overmighty state is a dangerous one   he said. his party  instinctively  understood the  new liberal britain  which is no longer a nation with one family structure  and one colour  he said.  we are less deferential; more inclined to think for ourselves; more open about sexuality and equality.  our national institutions are changing too. we are no longer a nation of one church; we are a nation of many faiths. in our attitudes and the way we live our lives  this is in many ways a liberal britain.
act on detention ruling  uk urged the government must act quickly on the law lords  ruling that detention of foreign terror suspects without trial is unlawful  mary robinson has said.  the former un commissioner for human rights and irish president told radio 4 s today the government s response would be scrutinised internationally.  it would be very troubling if the government did not accept the judgement and then work within it   she said. home secretary charles clarke has said detainees will not be freed at present. speaking to parliament on his first day in office as home secretary following david blunkett s resignation  mr clarke said:  i will be asking parliament to renew this legislation in the new year.  in the meantime  we will be studying the judgement carefully to see whether it is possible to modify our legislation to address the concerns raised by the house of lords.   mrs robinson said the law lords  ruling was  in line with international legal opinion  and praised their  very decisive  eight to one majority.  what the law lords did was acknowledge the role of the government  but say that there had been a disproportionate use  that it amounted to executive detention and it was discriminatory because it didn t apply to british citizens   she said.  mrs robinson warned that a lack of action by the british government could lead to further action in legal arenas such as the european court of human rights in strasbourg.  if the government were not to accept this ruling then there is further redress  including possible damages for the individuals who could claim that the government either was tardy or was resisting the implications of the judgement of the law lords.  she said a meeting of the club of madrid - a group of former world leaders - to be held in the spanish capital on the march anniversary of the train bombings there would probably discuss the ruling and its implications.  i have no doubt that this judgement will be looked at  both as a very positive step in clarifying the law and restating the fundamental principles  but also the response of the british government will be under quite a clear international scrutiny there.   the detainees took their case to the house of lords after the court of appeal backed the home office s powers to hold them without limit or charge. the government opted out of part of the european convention on human rights concerning the right to a fair trial in order to bring in anti-terrorism legislation in response to the 11 september attacks in the us. any foreign national suspected of links with terrorism can be detained or can opt to be deported. the law lords said the rules were incompatible with the european convention on human rights as they allowed detentions  in a way that discriminates on the ground of nationality or immigration status . the case was heard by a panel of nine law lords rather than the usual five because of the constitutional importance of the case.
galloway plea for hostage release ex-labour mp george galloway has appealed for the release of aid worker margaret hassan  kidnapped in iraq.  mrs hassan  59  who led care international operations in iraq  was abducted in baghdad on 19 october. mr galloway was expelled from the labour party because of his staunch opposition to the war on iraq. he denied an earlier report that he planned to make a direct appeal to the kidnappers via the al-jazeera arabic television channel.  speaking in london on saturday at the first annual delegate conference of his newly-founded party  the respect coalition  he said:  i have deliberately not involved myself before in any of these situations.  but this woman has been a prominent opponent of both the war and the preceding years of sanctions.  i am prepared to do anything i can to help save her life.  a spokesman later said mr galloway had friends in common with ms hassan  who he described as a prominent anti-war activist  and that he was  willing to do anything - go to iraq or be an intermediary or anything that s necessary . since her abduction  several videos of mrs hassan have been broadcast by al-jazeera. the latest footage showed mrs hassan asking for british troops to be pulled out of iraq. she also urged care international  the aid agency she works for  to close its office in baghdad  and appealed for iraqi women prisoners to be freed. care has since closed down all its operations in iraq.
lewis-francis eyeing world gold mark lewis-francis says his olympic success has made him determined to bag world championship 100m gold in 2005.  the 22-year-old pipped maurice greene on the last leg of the 4x100m relay in athens to take top honours for team gb. but individually  the birchfield harrier has yet to build on his world junior championship win four years ago.  the gold medal in athens has made me realise that i can get to the top level and i want to get there again. it can happen  i don t see why not   he said. lewis-francis has still to decided what events will feature in his build-up to the worlds - with one exception. he has confirmed his participation in the norwich union grand prix in birmingham on 18 february  where he will take on another member of britain s victorious men s relay team - jason gardener - over 60m. he added:  it s a bit too early to make any predictions for helsinki  but i have my eyes open and i know i can be the best in the world.
loyalty cards idea for tv addicts viewers could soon be rewarded for watching tv as loyalty cards come to a screen near you.  any household hooked up to sky could soon be using smartcards in conjunction with their set-top boxes. broadcasters such as sky and itv could offer viewers loyalty points in return for watching a particular channel or programme. sky will activate a spare slot on set-top boxes in january  marketing magazine new media age reported.  sky set-top boxes have two slots. one is for the viewer s decryption card  while the other has been dormant until now.  loyalty cards have become a common addition to most wallets  as high street brands rush to keep customers with a series of incentives offered by store cards. now similar schemes look set to enter the highly competitive world of multi-channel tv. viewers who stay loyal to a particular tv channel could be rewarded by free tv content or freebies from retail partners. broadcasters aiming content at children could offer smartcards which gives membership to exclusive content and clubs.  parents could pre-pay for some content  as a kind of tv pocket money card   said nigel whalley  managing director of media consultancy decipher.  viewers could even be rewarded for watching ad breaks  with ideas such as ad bingo being touted by firms keen to make money out of the new market  said mr whalley. credit cards that have been chipped could be used in set-top boxes to pay for movies  gambling and gaming.  the idea of an intelligent card in boxes offers a lot of possibilities. it will be down to the ingenuity of the content players   said mr whalley. for the bbc  revenue-generating activity will be of little interest but the new development may prompt changes to freeview set-top boxes  said mr whalley. currently most freeview boxes do not have a slot which would allow viewers to use a smartcard. some 7.4 million households have sky boxes and sky is hoping to increase this to 10 million by 2010. loyalty cards could play a role in this  particularly in reducing the number of people who cancel their sky subscriptions  said ian fogg  an analyst with jupiter research.
fightstar take to the stage charlie simpson took his new band fightstar to the stage on friday night  just hours after officially announcing his departure from pop band busted.  he was greeted by a sell-out crowd at the university of warwick. confirmation of busted s long-rumoured split had come earlier in the day  when simpson held a press conference in london with bandmates matt willis and james bourne. all three band members stressed that the break up was amicable  although bourne admitted he was  devastated  to hear of simpson s departure.  this has been a really difficult decision   19-year-old simpson revealed   i hope the fans will understand.   while simpson declared he would look back with pride on busted s enormous success  his focus turned immediately to fightstar  with friday s press conference coinciding with the start of the band s 13-date tour of the uk. fuelled by this news  all 1 400 tickets to see charlie s first post-busted live appearance - at the university of warwick s student union - sold out rapidly. mike eccleshall  the venue s promotions coordinator  said:  tickets had been selling strongly over the past few days  but sales went mad after the news broke. we had completely sold out by 4pm.   with queues outside the venue long and expectations high  the pressure was on fightstar to impress. although many dedicated fans travelled to the gig from around the country  they faced a tough crowd made up chiefly of students  the average age of the audience far exceeding that of any busted concert. gone were the screaming girls to which simpson had become accustomed. support act brigade  fronted by simpson s brother  played a short set first and were met with general approval. when fightstar eventually took to the stage around 11pm  however  a riotous cheer easily drowned out any hecklers lurking in the crowd.  unfortunately  the band were initially hindered by technical teething problems as simpson s guitar amplifier failed to work. as sound technicians rushed to fix it  other band members did their best to improvise. when they eventually got under way  fightstar s blend of emotionally charged rock was warmly received. far heavier and less commercial than busted s chart-topping pop-punk  the band will undoubtedly appeal to a more mature fan-base. warwick student helen clutterbuck admitted:  i came to check out fightstar because of all the controversy.  i ve never heard them before  but i m pretty impressed.  less impressed were fellow students ryan crabbe and gordon rennie  who observed   with fightstar  charlie has clearly progressed from busted s sound  but they re still not very inspiring.  fightstar played for around 45 minutes  showcasing material from their forthcoming ep called they liked you better when you were dead  due for release in february.
munster cup tie switched to spain munster s heineken cup quarter-final tie against biarritz on 3 april has been switched to real sociedad s paseo de anoeta stadium in san sebastian.  real s ground holds 32 000 whereas the parc des sports aguilera in biarritz has a capacity of just 12 667. the irish province will be given at least 8 000 tickets.  the decision to move was a difficult one  but as we considered the fans as one of our primary objectives   said biarritz chairman marcel martin.  we hope we will be rewarded as a huge crowd behaving in the best rugby tradition.  the match will be the first heineken cup fixture to be played in spain  and is expected to attract the biggest-ever attendance for a rugby match in the country. ulster were the last irish team to play at the paseo de anoeta stadium where they faced a euskarians side during a pre-season tour in 1998.
salary scandal in cameroon cameroon says widespread corruption in its finance ministry has cost it 1bn cfa francs ($2m; £1m) a month.  about 500 officials are accused of either awarding themselves extra money or claiming salaries for  non-existent  workers. prime minister ephraim inoni  who vowed to tackle corruption when he came to office last year  said those found guilty would face tough punishments. the scam is believed to have begun in 1994.  the prime minister s office said the alleged fraud was uncovered during an investigation into the payroll at the ministry. in certain cases  staff are said to have lied about their rank and delayed their retirement in order to boost their earnings. the prime minister s office said auditors had found  irregularities in the career structure of certain civil servants . it added that the staff in question  appear to have received unearned salaries  boosting the payroll .  fidelis nanga  a journalist based in the cameroon capital yaounde  said the government was considering taking criminal action against those found guilty and forcing them to repay any money owed.  the prime minister has given instructions for exemplary penalties to be meted out against the accused and their accomplices if found guilty   he told the bbc s network africa programme.  mr inoni launched an anti-corruption drive in december after foreign investors criticised a lack of transparency in the country s public finances. in one initiative designed to improve efficiency  civil servants who arrived late for work were locked out of their offices. the government now intends to carry out an audit of payrolls at all other government ministries. in a report compiled by anti-corruption body transparency international in 2003  graft was said to be  pervasive  in cameroon.
consumers drive french economy france s economic growth accelerated in the last three months of 2004  driven by consumer spending  a report shows.  gross domestic product (gdp) rose by 0.8% in the fourth quarter compared with the previous three month period  the statistical office insee said. that expansion pushed annual growth to 2.3%  the fastest rate in two years. consumer spending was up by 1.2% in the fourth quarter  and there also was a rebound in business investment that gave the recovery an extra shove.  analysts warned that france still was facing challenges and was unlikely to keep expanding at its current pace.   france still has a strong economic growth   said marc toutai  an economist at natexis banques populaires.  but  if we check the figures in detail  there s a problem.   consumer spending is still high. but french households have spent their savings to consume.  france can t sustain a high growth rate without an improvement in the job market. there s too much of a gap between growth and employment.  unemployment levels are currently stuck at about 10%  and is proving difficult to bring down despite government efforts. another worry is that demand in germany and italy  two of france s main trading partners  is sluggish.  despite the concerns  analysts pointed out that france was outperforming the majority of its european counterparts and that its economy was looking more robust than in previous years. as well as strong domestic demand  exports climbed by 1.3% in the fourth quarter - the biggest increase in foreign sales for a year.  it s an economic growth that seems well balanced   said nicolas claquin  an analyst at ccf.  in the beginning of 2004  growth was mainly driven by consumer spending. here it gets contributions from investment and exports  though household consumption is still strong.  but we expect overall economic growth to fall to 2.0 percent in 2005.
labour s election love-in peace and love have been in short supply in the labour party in recent days.  if press reports are to be believed  alan milburn and gordon brown have been at each other s throats over the contents of labour s next election manifesto. but the pair were all smiles on tuesday morning  as they joined john prescott to unveil labour s latest poster campaign. the event - at old billingsgate fish market on the banks of the thames - was a carefully choreographed show of unity. and the surest sign yet that we are heading for a general election in the next few months. it was also one of the most bizarre photo opportunities of recent years.  the first inkling something slightly odd was afoot was when - in place of the soft rock music normally chosen for such occasions - labour s speakers crackled to life with the sound of booker t and the mgs. then a vw camper van trundled into view  decked out in that most mind-bending of psychedelic messages -  lowest mortgage rate for 40 years . as the side-door slid open  it looked for one glorious moment as if the cabinet had decided to bury their differences and go on the road together  scooby doo-style. but  sadly  it wasn t the cabinet who had raided the dressing-up box - just six rather ill-at-ease looking labour students. two were dressed as regency dandies - to unveil a poster trumpeting  the longest period of economic growth for 200 years . another pair of students were in a beatle wig and sgt pepper jacket to highlight the  lowest interest rates since the 1960s .  the remaining two were dressed in a vague approximation of disco chic to demonstrate the  lowest unemployment since the seventies .  the politicians - led out by john prescott - were soberly-suited as always. the event may have been designed to highlight labour s economic success under mr brown  but there was little doubt who was in charge. the chancellor walked side-by-side with mr milburn  pointedly exchanging chit chat  as they approached the microphone. but it was mr milburn who took centre stage  speaking of the  positive campaign  the party hoped to stage in the  coming weeks and months .  the mobile poster vans would  let people know britain is working again . mr brown repeated the familiar mantras displayed on the posters and spoke of labour s  shared purpose  and  united dedication . it was left to mr prescott to pay glowing tribute to the chancellor s record and  in a final flourish  to produce his famous pledge card  from 1997  claiming labour has met all of its promises. the event was carefully stage-managed to underline cabinet unity. and  more specifically  to demonstrate the  central role  mr brown will play in the election campaign  despite being sidelined as campaign chief in favour of mr milburn.  but keen students of body language will have had a field day. there was much forced smiling for the cameras  but only mr prescott  who revels in such occasions  seemed to be truly enjoying himself. mr milburn made a point of turning to face the chancellor  as he spoke  nodding thoughtfully. but it was the former health secretary s final gesture  placing an arm on mr brown s back as they walked away from the microphones  which was perhaps the most telling. thanks for dropping by gordon  he might have been saying.
ref stands by scotland decisions the referee from saturday s france v scotland six nations match has defended the officials  handling of the game after criticism by matt williams.  the scotland coach said his side were robbed of victory by poor decisions made by the officials. but nigel williams said:  i m satisfied the game was handled correctly.  meanwhile  matt williams will not be punished by the scottish rugby union for allegedly using bad language in his comments about the officials. he denies having done so. nonetheless  he was furious about several decisions that he felt denied his side a famous victory. but nigel williams told the scottish daily mail:  i spoke to matt williams at the post-match dinner.  he made no mention of the disallowed try or any other refereeing decisions whatsoever.  if matt has issues with the match officials  then he is very welcome to phone me and discuss them.  ultimately there is a match assessor at every international game to give an impartial and objective view of the performance of the officials.  that is the beginning and end of it.
will tory tax cuts lift spirits  michael howard has finally revealed the full scale of his planned tory tax cuts.  should he win the next general election  he has earmarked £4 billion that will be used to reduce taxes - although he still will not say which or how. this was the pre-election message many in his party have been pressing for and voters  he believes  will warm to. at its simplest  it is saying:  vote tory and you can have it both ways . not only would his government stick to labour spending plans on core public services  including health and education  it would increase spending on defence  police and pensions. and even after that was done  it would still have enough left over for a tax cut equivalent to about a penny off the basic rate of income tax.  all the money would come from its £35 billion efficiency savings which would see the axe taken to bureaucracy  waste and the civil service. of that  £23 billion would go on spending plans  with £8 billion to fill the black hole left  they claim  by gordon brown  and the rest going in tax cuts.  neither mr howard nor mr letwin would say exactly how they would use that cash  although a cut in the basic rate seems unlikely. ideas already floated include raising tax thresholds and abolishing or reducing inheritance tax  although some in the tory party are urging mr howard to announce something more eye-catching before the election. as the tory leader declared  the aim of the exercise is to open up a real economic policy divide between labour and the tories.  at this election  people will have a clear choice between mr blair who will waste more and tax more and the conservative party which will give value for money and tax less   he said.  it is a move back towards an almost traditional tory message which previously suggested labour was the party of tax rises and the conservatives the party of tax cuts.  the extension of that  however  was that labour was also seen as the party of big spending on the public services while the tories were the cutters. and that is where one of the problems lies for mr howard - can he persuade sceptical voters that they really can have it both ways with bigger spending on public services and lower taxes  he insists he will not promise anything before the election that he cannot deliver if put into downing street. labour  needless to say  claim his planned £35bn efficiency savings simply don t add up and that those sorts of figures are fantasy.  one of new labour s greatest successes before the historic 1997 election was to persuade voters  business and the city that it could be trusted to run the economy. so far that has not faced any real challenge  but independent analysts now claim a third new labour government would be forced to either increase taxation or taxes to plug a black hole it has at the centre of its finances. meanwhile  the liberal democrats are committed to increasing taxes for the most well off to finance their spending proposals launched earlier in the day. so  mr howard hopes his message will start to hit home during this unofficial election campaign and that his poll ratings might finally lift off the floor. and  while other issues like the iraq war and trust will play a major part in that campaign  it is likely - and the prime minister probably hopes - that the economy will be the deciding factor.
eminem secret gig venue revealed rapper eminem is to play an intimate gig in london on saturday  following a show on the river thames on friday.  the us star will play just two songs at a night showcasing his label shady records at the islington academy. eminem performed on hms belfast on friday  which is docked on the river thames  where he filmed two songs for bbc one s top of the pops. he arrived in the uk on friday following his appearance at the mtv europe music awards in rome. other rap acts who may appear at the islington gig include stat quo  proof  dj green lantern  swift and obie trice.  eminem s latest album soared to the top of the us chart after just three days on sale in record shops. encore is now a chart-topper on both sides of the atlantic following its debut at number one in the uk. the fourth album from the rap star was on sale for two days before it outsold all of its rivals. the album was released early in an effort to combat both physical and online piracy.  eminem s album includes the track mosh  which is a tirade against us president bush and the presence of us troops in iraq. the rapper was criticised earlier this year after a performance on bbc one s top of the pops in april led 12 viewers to complain he was  lewd  and  offensive . the complaints about the star grabbing his crotch were upheld by the bbc.  the performer had been asked to tone his act down after rehearsal but ignored this request during the live broadcast   a bbc statement read.  although his gestures were part of the rap culture  they had gone beyond what is expected.
bmw drives record sales in asia bmw has forecast sales growth of at least 10% in asia this year after registering record sales there in 2004.  the luxury carmaker saw strong sales of its three marques - bmw  mini and rolls-royce - in asia last year after the launch of three new models. the company  which is vying with mercedes-benz for the title of leading premium carmaker  is confident about its prospects for the region in 2005. it is launching a revamped version of its 3-series saloon class next month.  bmw sold nearly 95 000 cars in asia last year  up 2.6% on 2003.  bmw-brand sales rose 2.3% to 80 600 while sales of mini models rose 3.6% to 14 800. there was also a significant increase in sales of rolls-royces on the continent. bmw sold more than 100 of the iconic models compared with just ten the previous year. the german carmaker is aiming to boost annual sales in asia to 150 000 by 2008.  here in asia  we consider a double-digit increase in retail on the order of 10 to 15% to be realistic on the basis of current features   said helmut panke  bmw s group chief executive.  china remains the main area of concern for bmw after sales there fell 16% last year. however  bmw is hopeful of a much better year in 2005 as its direct investment in china begins to pay dividends. the company only began assembling luxury high-powered sedans in china in 2003. 2004 was generally a good year for bmw  which saw revenues from its core car-making operations rise 11%.
wenger steps up row arsene wenger has stepped up his feud with sir alex ferguson by claiming the manchester united manager is guilty of bringing football into disrepute.  the pair s long-running row was put back in the headlines on saturday when ferguson said his arsenal counterpart was  a disgrace . wenger initially refused to bite back  saying only:  i will never answer any questions any more about this man.  but now he claims ferguson should be punished by the football association. the latest twist in the ferguson-wenger saga came on saturday when the united boss  in an interview with the independent newspaper  discussed the events after the game between the two sides in october. united won 2-0 that day  at old trafford  but the game was followed by a now notorious food fight which saw ferguson s clothes covered in soup and pizza. the sides meet again at highbury on 1 february.  in the tunnel wenger was criticising my players  calling them cheats  so i told him to leave them alone and behave himself   ferguson said on saturday.  he ran at me with hands raised saying  what do you want to do about it    to not apologise for the behaviour of the players to another manager is unthinkable. it s a disgrace  but i don t expect wenger to ever apologise  he s that type of person.   those allegations were put to wenger after saturday s game at bolton  which arsenal lost to slip 10 points behind chelsea in the title race. at first he said only:  i ve always been consistent with that story and told you nothing happened.  if he has to talk  he talks. if he wants to make a newspaper article  he makes a newspaper article.  he doesn t interest me and doesn t matter to me at all. i will never answer to any provocation from him any more.  he does what he likes in england anyway. he can go abroad one day and see how it is.  but later on saturday  according to the independent  wenger spoke to a smaller group of reporters and expanded on his reaction.  i have no diplomatic relations with him   the arsenal boss is quoted as saying.  what i don t understand is that he does what he wants and you (the press) are all at his feet.   the situation (concerning the food fight) has been judged and there is a game going on in a month.  the managers have a responsibility to protect the game before the game. but in england you are only punished for what you say after the game.  now the whole story starts again. i don t go into that game. we play football. i am a football manager and i love football above all ... no matter what people say.  reminded that ferguson called him  a disgrace   wenger added:  i don t respond to anything. in england you have a good phrase. it is  bringing the game into disrepute .  but that is not only after a game  it is as well before a game.   ferguson had also claimed that united chief executive david gill and arsenal vice-chairman david dein had agreed at boardroom level not to discuss the incident in public. but ferguson added:  in the ensuing weeks all you got was a diatribe from arsenal about being kicked off the pitch and all that nonsense. gill phoned dein three times to complain but nothing was done.  the return is on 1 february and they will come out with another diatribe.  david gill and i feel we should set the record straight because arsenal have not written to us to apologise and we would not let that happen here.  meanwhile  the league managers association have offered to act as peacemakers in the hope of resolving the on-going row. during that stormy game in october  united striker ruud van nistelrooy caught arsenal s ashley cole with one particularly strong tackle. wenger later accused van nistelrooy of  cheating  and was fined £15 000 and  severely reprimanded  by the football association. ferguson admitted on saturday that van nistelrooy s tackle  which earned the dutchman a ban   could have given (cole) a serious injury   but he believes arsenal were the main aggressors.   wenger is always complaining the match was not played in the right spirit   he added.  they are the worst losers of all time  they don t know how to lose. maybe it is just manchester united  they don t lose many games to other teams.  we tend to forget the worst disciplinary record of all time was arsenal s up until last season. in fairness it has improved and now they are seen as paragons of virtue.  but to wenger it never happens  it is all some dream or nightmare.
new foot and mouth action urged a senior tory mp has criticised agriculture department defra s  lackadaisical  approach to planning for a future foot and mouth outbreak.  public accounts committee chairman edward leigh was giving his reaction to a report by a government watchdog on lessons to be learnt from the crisis. the national audit office said defra had improved its capacity to deal with future livestock disease outbreaks. but mr leigh said the department was  dragging its heels .  that comment referred to the setting up of a scheme to share any future compensation costs with industry. he also said defra had been  dreadfully slow  in paying some of its bills dating from the foot and mouth crisis.  the outbreak  which began in 2001  led to the slaughter of 6.5 million animals  devastated many farms and rural businesses  and is estimated to have cost the uk up to £8bn.  four years after the outbreak  defra is yet to begin its planned review of some of its contractors  costs  and £40m of invoices remain unpaid   mr leigh said. mr leigh also pointed out that the introduction of an it system to help control future outbreaks had been delayed. in november it emerged european commission compensation amounted to just over a third of the money the uk government had hoped to get as reimbursement for the billions lost through the foot and mouth crisis.  ministers had hoped to get £900m from the european union vet fund to help with animal slaughter and other costs but in the end was granted £349m. that was because the uk had valued the culled animals at between  two and three times  the commission s assessment of their likely market value. national audit office chief sir john bourn said a new compensation scheme was now being looked at. on the issue of the unpaid invoices  sir john said defra had paid 97% of the £1.3bn submitted by contractors since 2001   but has not agreed a final settlement with 57 contractors pending the results of its investigations .  mr leigh said being  better prepared  would also help avoid the need for  mass funeral pyres which provided an unsettling images of the 2001 outbreak . a defra spokesman said:  we welcome the report. it acknowledges the progress the department has made since 2001 - particularly on contingency planning and our improved capacity and preparedness for combating another major disease outbreak.  however  the department is aware that there are some areas requiring further work and we are working to resolve them as soon as is practicable.
ferguson urges henry punishment sir alex ferguson has called on the football association to punish arsenal s thierry henry for an incident involving gabriel heinze.  ferguson believes henry deliberately caught heinze on the head with his knee during united s controversial win. the united boss said it was worse than ruud van nistelrooy s foul on ashley cole for which he got a three-game ban.  we shall present it to the fa and see what they do. the tackle on heinze was terrible   he said. clubs are permitted to ask the fa to examine specific incidents but information is expected to be provided within 48 hours of the game. the clash occurred moments before half-time when a freddie ljungberg challenge left heinze on the ground on the left touchline. henry  following the ball  attempted to hurdle the argentine but his knee collided with the back of heinze s head.  the striker protested his innocence - and referee mike riley deemed the collision accidental. ferguson was also upset by arsenal s overall discipline during the heated encounter between the two arch-rivals and praised his own side s behaviour.  edu produced a terrible tackle on scholes that was a potential leg-breaker   he said.  there were 24 fouls in the game by arsenal  seven on heinze  five on ronaldo  six by vieira - and it was only his sixth foul that got him booked. phil neville got booked for his first challenge.  i am proud of my players for the way they handled that pressure.  we have always been good at being gracious in defeat. what happened on sunday overshadowed our achievement  but then they do it all the time  don t they
brit awards for devon music acts devon singer joss stone and rock band muse won coveted brit awards during the event s 25th anniversary.  seventeen-year-old stone  from near cullumpton  won two awards: best british female act  and best urban act out of three award nominations. muse  whose members met in south devon  beat franz ferdinand  jamie cullum  kasabian and the libertines for best british live act. the band has sold about two million records worldwide.  after beating amy winehouse  jamelia  natasha bedingfield and pj harvey to the best british female prize  joss stone said:  i don t know what to say. i don t like doing this at all. i d like to thank my family for being really supportive and everybody that made my record with me.   i don t even know what to do right now. thank you all you guys for voting for me  i feel sick right now.  viewers of digital music tv channel mtv base voted stone the winner in the best urban act category. ms stone also performed her song right to be wrong  backed by a gospel choir  at the 25th award ceremony at london s earls court. her second album mind  body & soul reached number one in the uk charts last october and went straight into the us charts at number 11.  the teenager also has grammy nominations in the us  normally dominated by home-grown acts. born jocelyn stoker  the devon diva started her career in a bbc talent programme  and was then discovered at a new york audition by a us record executive  steve greenberg. indie rock group muse consists of matthew bellamy  chris wolstenholme and dominic howard who met in their early teens in teignmouth  south devon. dominic howard said of winning:  we love playing live  it s very important for our band. so to win something like this really feels great.  the trio met aged 13 and formed the band gothic plague  changing its name to fixed penalty  rocket baby dolls and finally muse. the band released its first self-titled ep in 1998. the third studio album  absolution  was released in 2003  providing the hit singles time is running out  hysteria  and butterflies and hurricanes.
borussia dortmund near bust german football club and former european champion borussia dortmund has warned it will go bankrupt if rescue talks with creditors fail.  the company s shares tumbled after it said it has  entered a life-threatening profitability and financial situation . borussia dortmund has posted record losses and missed rent payments on its westfallen stadium. chief executive gerd niebaum stepped down last week and creditors are now pushing for greater control. shares in borussia dortmund  germany s only stock-market listed football club  dropped by almost 23% to 2.05 euros during early afternoon trading.  fund manager florian hamm - borussia dortmund s largest investor - said he would only invest more money in the company if he got a greater say in how it is run.  i demand better transparency   he is quoted as saying by germany s manger magazin. the club has also faced calls to appoint executives from outside the club.  borussia dortmund posted a record loss of 68m euros ($89m; £47m) in the 12 months through june. it made a loss of 27.2m euros in the first half of the current fiscal year and said that total debts will increase to 134.7m euros by the middle of 2006 unless a restructuring plan is pushed through.  this is the bill for their mismanagement over the past years   said hvb analyst peter-thilo halser. the club appointed an auditor  who has recommended a number of steps  including deferring the rent due on the stadium and suspending debt repayments until at least the 2006-2007 fiscal year. stephen schechter  a uk investment banker who has held talks with borussia dortmund over a possible bond sale  said the club needs a capital injection of 35m euros.  they need strong people on the board who do not have a history with the club   he said.
rolling out next generation s net the body that oversees how the net works  grows and evolves says it has coped well with its growth in the last 10 years  but it is just the start.   in a sense  we have hardly started in reaching the whole population   the new chair of the internet engineering task force (ietf)  brian carpenter  says. the ietf ensures the smooth running and organisation of the net s architecture. with broadband take-up growing  services like voice and tv will open up interesting challenges for the net.  i think voip (voice-over internet protocol  allowing phone calls to be made over the net) is very important - it challenges all the old cost models of telecoms   says dr carpenter.  second  it challenges more deeply the business model that you have to be a service provider with a lot of infrastructure. with voip  you need very little infrastructure.   a distinguished ibm engineer  dr carpenter spent 20 years at cern  the european laboratory for particle physics. as the new chair of the ietf  his next big challenge is overseeing ipv6  the next generation standard for information transfer and routing across the web. at cern  dr carpenter helped pioneer advanced net applications during the development of the world wide web  so he is well-placed to take on such a task. the net s growth and evolution depend on standards and protocols  and ensuring the architecture works and talks to other standards is a crucial job of the ietf. the top priority is to ensure that the standards that make the net work  are open and free for anyone to use and work with.  the net is built on a protocol called tcp/ip  which means transmission control protocol  and internet protocol. when computers communicate with the net  a unique ip address is used to send and receive information. the ietf is a large international community of network designers  operators  vendors  and researchers working on the evolution of the net s architecture and the way this information is sent and received. they make sure it all knits together leaving no gaps.  we ve seen some interesting effects over last few years   explains dr carpenter.  the net was growing at a fantastic rate at the end of the 90s. then there was a bit of a glitch in 2000.  we are now seeing a very clear phase of consolidation and renewed growth.   that renewed growth is also being buoyed by emerging economies  like china  which are showing fast uptake of broadband net and other technologies. the number of broadband subscribers via dsl (digital subscriber line) doubled in a year to 13 million  according to figures released at the end of 2004.  the challenges we face are about continuing to produce standards to allow for that growth rate   explained dr carpenter.  given it [the net] was designed for the whole community  it has done well to reach millions. if you want to reach the whole population  you have to make sure it can scale up.  ipv6  the standard that will replace the existing ipv4  will allow for billions more addresses on the net  and it is gradually being worked into network infrastructure across the world.  the actual number of addresses with ipv4 is limited to four billion ip addresses.  that clearly is not enough when you have 10 billion people to serve  so there is technical solution  the new version of ip - ipv6.  it has much larger address space possibilities with no practical limits   said dr carpenter. standards are vital to something as complex as the net  and making sure standards are open and can work with across networks is a big task. the difference this next generation standard  ipv6  will make to the average net user is almost invisible.  our first goal is that it [ipv6] should make no difference - people should not notice a difference.  it is like when the london telephone numbers got longer. a lot of the process will be invisible.  people are usually given an ip address without knowing it.  technically deployment has started and the standards for are just about settled  said dr carpenter.  the one problem with the net that may never disappear completely is security. to dr carpenter  the solution comes out of technological and human behaviour. people have to be educated about  sensible behaviour  he says  such as ignoring e-mails that claim you have won something.   i don t think it is going to get worse. people will remain concerned about security and they probably should do - just as you would be concerned walking along a dark street.  we have to do work to make sure there are better security internet standards. it is a never-ending battle in a sense.  but  he adds:  even if security has improved  you still worry a bit. unfortunately  it is just part of life. we have a duty to do what we can.
looks and music to drive mobiles mobile phones are still enjoying a boom time in sales  according to research from technology analysts gartner.  more than 674 million mobiles were sold last year globally  said the report  the highest total sold to date. the figure was 30% more than in 2003 and surpassed even the most optimistic predictions  gartner said. good design and the look of a mobile  as well as new services such as music downloads  could go some way to pushing up sales in 2005  said analysts. although people were still looking for better replacement phones  there was evidence  according to gartner  that some markets were seeing a slow-down in replacement sales.   all the markets grew apart from japan which shows that replacement sales are continuing in western europe   mobile analyst carolina milanesi told the bbc news website.  japan is where north america and western european markets can be in a couple of years  time.  they already have tv  music  ringtones  cameras  and all that we can think of on mobiles  so people have stopped buying replacement phones.   but there could be a slight slowdown in sales in european and us markets too  according to gartner  as people wait to see what comes next in mobile technology. this means mobile companies have to think carefully about what they are offering in new models so that people see a compelling reason to upgrade  said gartner. third generation mobiles (3g) with the ability to handle large amounts of data transfer  like video  could drive people into upgrading their phones  but ms milanesi said it was difficult to say how quickly that would happen.  at the end of the day  people have cameras and colour screens on mobiles and for the majority of people out there who don t really care about technology the speed of data to a phone is not critical.  nor would the rush to produce two or three megapixel camera phones be a reason for mobile owners to upgrade on its own. the majority of camera phone models are not at the stage where they can compete with digital cameras which also have flashes and zooms.  more likely to drive sales in 2005 would be the attention to design and aesthetics  as well as music services. the motorola razr v3 phone was typical of the attention to design that would be more commonplace in 2005  she added. this was not a  women s thing   she said  but a desire from men and women to have a gadget that is a form of self-expression too. it was not just about how the phone functioned  but about what it said about its owner.  western europe has always been a market which is quite attentive to design   said ms milanesi.   people are after something that is nice-looking  and together with that  there is the entertainment side.  this year music will have a part to play in this.  the market for full-track music downloads was worth just $20 million (£10.5 million) in 2004  but is set to be worth $1.8 billion (£9.4 million) by 2009  according to jupiter research. sony ericsson just released its walkman branded mobile phone  the w800  which combines a digital music player with up to 30 hours  battery life  and a two megapixel camera. in july last year  motorola and apple announced a version of itunes online music downloading service would be released which would be compatible with motorola mobile phones. apple said the new itunes music player would become motorola s standard music application for its music phones. but the challenge will be balancing storage capacity with battery life if mobile music hopes to compete with digital music players like the ipod. ms milanesi said more models would likely be released in the coming year with hard drives. but they would be more likely to compete with the smaller capacity music players that have around four gigabyte storage capacity  which would not put too much strain on battery life.
security warning over  fbi virus  the us federal bureau of investigation is warning that a computer virus is being spread via e-mails that purport to be from the fbi.  the e-mails show that they have come from an fbi.gov address and tell recipients that they have accessed illegal websites. the messages warn that their internet use has been monitored by the fbi s internet fraud complaint center. an attachment in the e-mail contains the virus  the fbi said. the message asks recipients to click on the attachment and answer some questions about their internet use. but rather than being a questionnaire  the attachment contains a virus that infects the recipient s computer  according to the agency. it is not clear what the virus does once it has infected a computer. users are warned never to open attachment from unsolicited e-mails or from people they do not know.   recipients of this or similar solicitations should know that the fbi does not engage in the practice of sending unsolicited e-mails to the public in this manner   the fbi said in a statement. the bureau is investigating the phoney e-mails. the agency earlier this month shut down fbi.gov accounts  used to communicate with the public  because of a security breach. a spokeswoman said the two incidents appear to be unrelated.
tsunami to cost sri lanka $1.3bn sri lanka faces a $1.3bn (£691m) bill in 2005 for reconstruction after the tsunami which killed more than 30 000 of its people  its central bank says.  this estimate is preliminary  bank governor sunil mendis told reporters  and could rise in 2006. the island state is asking for about $320m from the international monetary fund to help pay for relief  he said. the bank has 5bn rupees ($50m; £27m) set aside to lend at a lower interest rate to those who lost property. according to mr mendis  half the imf support could come from a freeze on debt repayments  which would free up resources immediately. the rest could come from a five-year emergency loan. sri lanka is hoping for a wider freeze from other creditors.  the paris club of 19 creditors meets on 12 january to discuss a debt moratorium for the nations hit by the tsunami  which ravaged south and east asia on 26 december.  some 150 000 people across the region are feared to be dead and millions have been left homeless and destitute. a full reckoning of the economic cost to sri lanka of the tsunami will not be clear for some time to come. but already it looks likely that growth in the first half of 2005 will slow  mr mendis told reporters  although he would not say by how much. one side-effect of the disaster has been that the value of the rupee has risen as foreign funds have flooded into the country. the currency has strengthened 4% since late december  coming close to 100 rupees to the us dollar for the first time in more than six months.
nadal puts spain 2-0 up result: nadal 6-7 (6/8) 6-2 7-6 (8/6) 6-2 roddick  spain s rafael nadal beats andy roddick of the usa in the second singles match rubber of the 2004 davis cup final in seville. spain lead 1-0 after carlos moya beat mardy fish in straight sets in the opening match of the tie.  nadal holds his nerve and the crowd goes wild as spain go 2-0 up in the tie.  roddick holds serve to force nadal to serve for the match but the american surely cannot turn things around now.  nadal works roddick around the court on two consecutive points to earn two break points. one is enough  the spaniard secures the double-break and roddick is now teetering on the edge.  roddick is trying to gee himself up but the clay surface is taking its toll on his game and he is looking tired. nadal wins the game to love.  nadal steps up the pressure to break and spain have the early initiative in the fourth set.  nadal also holds convincingly as both players feel their way into the fourth set.  roddick shrugs off the disappointment of losing the third-set tiebreak and breezes through his first service game of the fourth set.  nadal earns the first mini-break in the tiebreak as the match enters its fourth hour. a couple of stunning points follow  one where nadal chases down a roddick shot and turns into a passing winner. then roddick produces some amazing defence at the net to take the score to 4-4. roddick has two serves for the set but double-faults to take the score to 5-5. nadal saves a roddick set point then earns his own with a drive volley - and a crosscourt passing winner sends the crowd wild.  nadal tries to up his aggression and he passes roddick down the line to go 15-40 and two set points up. roddick saves the first with a desperate lunge volley and smacks a volley winner across the court to take the score back to deuce before securing the game. the set will go to another tiebreak.  nadal enjoys another straightforward hold and roddick must once again serve to stay in the set.  roddick again holds on  despite some brilliant shot-making from his opponent.  nadal races through his service game to put the pressure straight back onto roddick.  roddick hangs in on his serve to level matters but nadal is making him fight for every point.  nadal could be suffering a disappointment hangover from the previous game as he goes 0-30 down and then has to save a break point after a tremendous rally in which he is forced into some brilliant defence. but it pays off and the spaniard edges ahead in the set.  roddick s serve is not firing as ferociously as usual and has to rely on his sheer competitive determination to stay in the set. three times  nadal forces a break point and three times the world number two hangs in. and roddick s grit pays off as he manages to hold.  roddick still looks a bit sluggish but he attacks the net and is rewarded with a break point  which nadal saves with a good first serve and the spaniard goes on to hold.  there is a disruption in play as roddick is upset about something in the crowd. the spanish captain gets involved as does the match referee but it is unclear what the problem is. one thing for certain is that the crowd are roused into support of nadal and they go wild when roddick loses the next point and goes break point down. roddick saves the break point and then bangs down his ninth ace before clinching the game with a service winner.  the game passes the two-hour mark as nadal holds serve to edge ahead in the third set.  now roddick has to defend a break point and he produces a characteristic ace to save it. it is immediately followed by another and he holds with a little dinked half-volley winner.  roddick is looking a little leaden-footed but does carve out a break point for himself. but he plays it poorly and nadal avoids the danger.  roddick has gone off the boil and again struggles. he fails to get down properly for a low forehand volley and gives nadal three break points. the american blasts an ace to save one but follows up with a double fault and the rubber is level.  nadal edges towards taking the second set with a comfortable hold.  two good serves put roddick 30-0 up but he then makes a couple of errors to find himself 30-40 down. he saves the break point with an ace and then manages to hold.  roddick s level has dropped while nadal is on a hot streak. the spaniard includes a superb crosscourt winner off the back foot as he races through his service game without dropping a point.  roddick double-faults twice and nadal takes full advantage of the break point offered  powering a passing winner past roddick.  nadal wins another tight game. neither player has dipped from the high standard of play in the first set.  nadal puts the american under pressure and roddick saves a break point with a superb stop volley before going on to hold.  nadal puts the disappointment of losing the first-set tiebreak to claim the opening game in the second.  roddick double-faults to concede the first mini-break and then nadal loops a crosscourt winner to seize advantage in the tiebreak. he lets one slip but wins his next serve to earn three set points. but roddick saves them and then earns one himself. nadal comes up with a down-the-line winner but then nets tamely on roddick s next set point.  nadal s nerve is tested as he tries to force a tiebreak. both players come up with some scintillating tennis and the spaniard has several chances to clinch the game before finally doing so when roddick drives wide.  a pulsating game sees nadal racing round the court retrieving and refusing to give roddick any easy points. the point of the match so far involves roddick s slam-dunk smash being returned by nadal before roddick finally manages to end the rally. on the very next point  nadal blasts a forehand service return from right of court that passes roddick and even the american is forced to applaud. but roddick comes up with two big serves to polish off the game.  nadal outplays roddick to reach 40-0 but the american fights back to 40-30 before nadal s powerful crosscourt forehand winner secures the game.  the crowd are getting very involved  cheering between roddick s first and second serves. but the american comes through to hold and edge ahead in the set.  nadal manages to hold again despite roddick piling the pressure on his serve. the spaniard wins the game courtesy of another lucky net cord.  roddick double faults buts manages to keep his composure. a well-placed serve is unreturnable and roddick holds.  a powerful ace down the middle gives nadal a simple love service game - the first time he has held serve so far in the match. if roddick didn t know before  he knows now that he is in a real contest.  another superb game as nadal breaks to once again lift the roof. he produces some fine groundstrokes to leave roddick chasing shadows. four of the first five games have seen a break of serve.  despite the disappointment of losing his serve  roddick is not phased and storms into a 40-15 lead when the umpire leaves his seat to confirm a close line-call. nadal takes the next point but roddick breaks again with a sharp volley at the net.  roddick s advantage is short lived as nadal breaks back immediately. a fortunate net cord helps the spaniard on his way and when roddick fires a forehand cross court shot wide to lose his serve  nadal pumps his fist in celebration.  the american is pumped up for this clash and takes on nadal s serve from the start. nadal s drop shot is agonisingly called out and roddick claims the vital first break.  after moya s win in the opening rubber  a raucous seville crowd is buoyed by nadal s impressive start which sees him race into a 30-0 lead. however roddick fights back to hold his serve.
lib dems highlight problem debt people vulnerable to problem debts should be afforded greater protection from banks aggressively promoting financial products  the lib dems say.  vincent cable says one in eight households already struggle with debt and that will worsen if there is a hike in interest rates or unemployment. the lib dems  treasury spokesman is unveiling a policy aimed at the issue. he wants to see  proper health checks  when loans are marketed so people know to take out payment protection.   were economic conditions to deteriorate at all  large numbers of people could be affected because they have borrowed to the limit   mr cable told bbc news.  banks are very aggressively promoting debt in many cases there is a bigger problem ahead.  mr cable said the government s consumer credit bill would target some of the  extreme problems  such as loan sharking  but ministers had been  a bit complacent  about the wider issue of debt levels. he said much of the payment protection currently available was  extremely expensive  and there were  lots of exclusions .  mr cable added that the office of fair trading should investigate the market. lib dem leader charles kennedy meanwhile is in the middle of a tour of the uk aimed at persuading voters his is the  real opposition . mr kennedy is visiting a mixture of rural seats  where his party is hoping to make gains from the conservatives  and urban areas traditionally associated with labour. labour say a lib dem vote could  let the tories in   while the tories say the lib dems would mean  higher taxes  soft crime laws  more power to europe . mr kennedy s tour comes as he  labour leader tony blair and conservative leader michael howard all step up campaigning ahead of the next general election  widely expected to be held on 5 may.  the liberal democrats say in the northern cities  the race is between them and labour  while in southern seats - particularly the south west - it is between them and the tories. speaking to the bbc s westminster hour on sunday  mr kennedy said the upcoming general election - widely tipped for 5 may - would be much more unpredictable than any others in  recent experience . and he brushed off labour suggestions a vote for his party would mean letting the tories in  by the back door .  if you look at the four previous parliamentary by-elections  the liberal democrats have demonstrated that  not only can we leapfrog the conservatives where we start in a third place position  but we can go on to defeat the government.  that s going to be the story  i think  of this coming general election.
crucial decision on super-casinos a decision on whether to allow westminster to legislate on super-casinos is set to be made by the scottish parliament.  the government has plans for up to eight las vegas style resorts in the uk  one of which is likely to be in glasgow. scottish ministers insist they will still have the final say on whether a super-casino will be built in scotland. but opposition parties say that will not happen in practice. the vote is due to be taken on wednesday and is expected to be close.  the scottish executive believes that the legislation should be handled by westminster. the new law will control internet gambling for the first time and is aimed at preventing children from becoming involved. a super-casino in glasgow could be located at ibrox or the scottish exhibition and conference centre. the new gambling bill going through westminster will allow casino complexes to open to the public  have live entertainment and large numbers of fruit machines with unlimited prizes. but the scottish national party and the tories say the issue of super-casinos should be decided in scotland and believe the executive is shirking its responsibility.
bombardier chief to leave company shares in train and plane-making giant bombardier have fallen to a 10-year low following the departure of its chief executive and two members of the board.  paul tellier  who was also bombardier s president  left the company amid an ongoing restructuring. laurent beaudoin  part of the family that controls the montreal-based firm  will take on the role of ceo under a newly created management structure. analysts said the resignations seem to have stemmed from a boardroom dispute. under mr tellier s tenure at the company  which began in january 2003  plans to cut the worldwide workforce of 75 000 by almost a third by 2006 were announced. the firm s snowmobile division and defence services unit were also sold and bombardier started the development of a new aircraft seating 110 to 135 passengers.  mr tellier had indicated he wanted to stay at the world s top train maker and third largest manufacturer of civil aircraft until the restructuring was complete. but bombardier has been faced with a declining share price and profits. earlier this month the firm said it earned $10m (£19.2m) in the third quarter  down from a profit of $133m a year ago.  i understand the board s concern that i would not be there for the long-term and the need to develop and execute strategies  and the need to reshape the management structure at this time   mr tellier said in a statement on monday. bombardier said restructuring plans drawn up by mr tellier s would continue to be implemented. shares in bombardier lost 65 canadian cents or 25% on the news to 1.90 canadian dollars before rallying to 2.20 canadian dollars.
iaaf to rule on greek sprint pair greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou are expected to find out on wednesday if they will be banned for missing drugs tests this summer.  the international association of athletics federations (iaaf) council held a conference call on tuesday and are set to announce their decision. kenteris and thanou could be suspended for up to two years. the duo withdrew from the olympics after missing a test but claimed they had suffered a motorcycle crash. the greek authorities have also brought criminal charges against the sprinters for avoiding a drugs test and faking an accident. their former coach christos tzekos is also facing charges and all three are awaiting a trial date.  however  the iaaf will determine the sprinters  future on the track after carefully considering all the evidence. the sport s ruling body is expected to direct the greek federation in what action it should take against the sprinters. kenteris and thanou can appeal against any decision at the court of arbitration for sport. the sprinters both sent written explanations to the iaaf  which have been taken into account. the iaaf sent an official warning to the sprinters and coach tzekos after they were discovered training in qatar rather than in crete  where they had said they would be. but kenteris and thanou then went on to skip tests in tel aviv and chicago  when they decided to fly back to greece early. just before the olympics  the pair dramatically missed another test in athens before withdrawing from the games. kenteris  31  won gold in the 200m at the sydney olympics in 2000  where thanou  29  won silver in the 100m.
verdict delay for greek sprinters greek athletics  governing body has postponed by two weeks the judgement on sprinters costas kenteris and katerina thanou for missing doping tests.  the pair are facing lengthy bans for the missed tests  including one on the eve of last year s athens olympics. they were set to learn their fate by the end of february  but late evidence from them has pushed the date back.  a decision is now expected by around mid-march   said one of their lawyers  michalis dimitrakopoulos. kenteris  31  who won the men s 200m title at the 2000 sydney games and thanou  30  who won the women s 100m silver medal in sydney  face a maximum two-year ban if found guilty. the athletes  who spectacularly withdrew from the athens olympics  have been suspended by the international association of athletics federations (iaaf) for missing the three tests. the iaaf said the sprinters had failed to provide samples for tests in tel aviv  chicago and athens and ordered greek athletic s governing body  segas  to hold a disciplinary inquiry. the athletes also face a criminal hearing in greece over the missed drugs tests and have been charged with faking a motorcycle accident on the day of the athens test  which led to them spending four days in hospital. following the final hearing in late january  the athletes sounded confident they would be acquitted.  i am confident and optimistic   thanou had said at the time.  we presented new evidence to the committee that they were not aware of.  it was not clear what this new evidence was.
labour trio  had vote-rig factory  three labour councillors in birmingham were caught operating a  vote-rigging factory   an election court has heard.  police found the trio handling unsealed postal ballots in a deserted warehouse in the city during a late-night raid in june 2004  the hearing was told. the votes were later counted towards that month s english local elections. the men  elected to the aston ward  deny collecting votes fraudulently. the judge presiding has indicated the whole postal voting system is under scrutiny. deputy high court judge richard mawrey  qc told the hearing at the birmingham and midlands institute the case could have potentially serious consequences for any forthcoming general election.  the special election court  the first in living memory to hear allegations of vote-rigging  opened in birmingham last month. the case against muhammad afzal  mohammed islam and mohammed kazi is being brought by local liberal democrat supporters. they claim the trio benefited from the widespread misuse of postal votes during the 10 june election. ravi sukul  counsel for the petitioners  accused the three men of being  deeply involved  in illegal practices. witnesses saw them carrying several bags from their campaign office  which the men drove to a warehouse on an industrial estate off birch road east  the court was told.  the police were alerted and called to the premises. mr sukul said:  when (the officers) arrived there  in the middle of the night  they saw a large room with a 10ft long table and six asian men present.  hundreds of documents and unsealed envelopes were scattered all over the table.  the police officers left the warehouse  but were later ordered back to seize the documents.  when the officers left  all the envelopes and papers were scattered   mr sukul said.   (when they went) back to make the seizure  every one of these 275 yellow ballot papers were placed neatly in envelope a and sealed. the house was in order.  interrupting mr sukul in his opening  mr mawrey said:  what you are saying is  these men were operating a vote-forging factory on an industrial estate.  the court heard how documents were taken by police to the elections office next morning  where they were mixed in with other ballots. the case against the men follows a hearing into postal fraud allegations made against three other birmingham councillors in the bordesley green ward  claims which are denied. mr mawrey is due to deliver a judgment in their case once the aston petition has been heard. mr afzal  mr islam and mr kazi deny conspiring to commit election fraud to deceive the returning officer. the case continues.
ministers deny care sums  wrong  ministers have insisted they are committed to free personal care for the elderly despite research suggesting the cost of the policy was under-estimated.  a report by the fraser of allander institute says the decision to push ahead with the flagship policy was based on flawed research. deputy health minister rhona brankin has pledged to study the research. snp holyrood leader nicola sturgeon said the public needed reassurance that the care programme was secure.  the rise in costs stems from a series of mistakes in the research used by the  care development group  of scottish executive experts who prepared the original costings  according to findings published in the quarterly economic commentary of strathclyde university s fraser of allander institute.  dubious  assumptions about improving health expectancy could drive the cost of the policy up by another £130m by 2022  the report warned.  it was carried out by husband and wife economist team jim and margaret cuthbert. but ms brankin told bbc radio scotland:  we don t think we got our sums wrong.  obviously we will examine the findings of this new report  along with figures from our own research that we have already commissioned.  we will look in great detail at any contribution to this  because we need to be sure we can provide free personal care and nursing care for our older people into the future.  and we are absolutely committed to doing that.   but the scottish national party called on ministers to reassure people that enough funding is in place to support the free personal care policy. ms sturgeon said that while she had no reason to doubt the executive s support for the policy  there were questions which needed to be answered and  if necessary  sums redone. she said:  serious concerns have been raised and there are questions which need to be answered by the scottish executive.  we need to know that the money is there  not just for this year or next year  but into the future so that older people  and those who are looking forward to older age  can rest assured that their personal care needs will be met.
civil servants in strike ballot the uk s biggest civil service union is to ballot its 290 000 members on strikes in protest at government plans to extend their pension age to 65.  the public and commercial services union will co-ordinate any action with up to six other public sector unions. unions have already earmarked 23 march for a one-day strike which could involve up to 1.4 million uk workers. the government says unions will be consulted before any changes are made to the pension system.  pcs leader mark serwotka warned there could be further walkouts unless there was a government rethink.   for a government that lectures everyone on choice - choice on public service  choice on this and choice on that - isn t it ironic that they re saying to public sector workers there is no choice   he said.  if you want the pension you were promised when you started you must work for an extra five years - that is working until people drop.  in the 20th century  it s completely unacceptable.  bbc correspondent stephen cape said the combined unions represented  a formidable force  which could embarrass the government in the run-up to the general election. a stoppage involving civil servants  in particular  could seriously disrupt or close government departments  agencies and museums  he said.  opposition to raising the retirement age is  one thing all the unions are agreed on   our correspondent added. unison s 800 000 workers  the transport and general workers  union s 70 000 and amicus  20 000 are among those being balloted about a 23 march walkout. deputy prime minister john prescott held a private meeting with senior union figures on thursday night. our correspondent said that he understood no deal had been offered in that meeting but that there was room for further negotiations. there was  some possibility  of the strike action being avoided  he added.
jones doping probe begins an investigation into doping claims against marion jones has been opened by the international olympic committee.  ioc president jacques rogge has set up a disciplinary body to look into claims by victor conte  of balco laboratories. jones  who says she is innocent  could lose all her olympic medals after conte said he gave her performance-enhancing drugs before the sydney olympics. but rogge said it was too early to speculate about that  hoping only that  the truth will emerge .  any decision on the medals would be taken by the ioc s executive board and could hinge on interpretation of a rule stating that olympic decisions can only be challenged within three years of the games closing. the sydney olympics ended more than four years ago  but world anti-doping agency chief dick pound said the rule may not apply because the allegations are only coming out now.  we will find a way to deal with that   pound said. in a statement released through her attorney rich nichols  jones repeated her innocence and vowed she would be cleared.  victor conte s allegations are not true and the truth will be revealed for the world to see as the legal process moves forward   she said.  conte is someone who is under federal indictment and has a record of issuing contradictory  inconsistent statements.
dawson joins england injury list scrum-half matt dawson is an injury doubt for england s six nations opener against wales next weekend.  the world cup winner missed wasps  12-9 loss to bath on saturday after injuring his right calf. wasps coach warren gatland said:  he s got a fitness test in the week but he s got a good chance of playing.  gloucester s andy hazell and leicester star lewis moody also received knocks during their respective league matches  but should be fit for wales next week. if dawson is not fit to face wales  robinson will have to choose from gloucester s andy gomarsall or leicester youngster harry ellis.  jamie noon is another player on the sidelines after he limped off in the first half against saracens on friday with a dead leg. the centre  who is in line for a first six nations start against wales  will have to wait 48 hours before knowing the state of his injury.
bbc leads interactive bafta wins the bbc and the national theatre have led the field at this year s interactive bafta awards.  the national theatre s stagework website picked up the prize for best learning as well as top factual site. the bbc collected three awards  including best online entertainment for the hitchhiker s guide to the galaxy adventure game. spooks interactive took the best interactive tv prize. the annual awards recognise the best in digital media. bbc sport interactive fought off competition from cbbc newsround and the guardian to take home the best news and sport trophy for its coverage of england s exit from euro 2004. it was recognised for its  groundbreaking  use of animation. bafta s grant dean  chair of bafta s interactive entertainment committee  said all the entrants had been of  outstanding quality  and that judging had been  enormously difficult .  without a doubt  2005 has been a landmark year for the bafta interactive awards   he added.   many of the top awards this year have gone to the companies we most commonly associate with traditional entertainment  showing how the gap between new media  film and television is closing.   awards were given out in 12 different categories  including interactive tv  film  music  design  as well as technical and social innovation  at a london ceremony. the top music award was given to sseyo minimixa  a mobile music sequencer designed to let people write  edit and share compositions. warner bros was given two prizes for its  inspiring  efforts in film and dvd interactivity. the chaplin collection beat oasis  really bend it like beckham  shaun of the dead and the day today in the dvd category  and trauma won best film. elsewhere  fashionista and clothes designer alexander mcqueen took the accolade for the best-designed website. the awards have been running since 1997  but in 2002 the british academy of film and television decided to split them into separate games and interactive ceremonies. on tuesday half-life 2 dominated the games prizes. it collected six baftas  including best game and best online game.
school sport  is back   says pm tony blair has promised that  sport is back  as a priority for schools.  the prime minister launched a £500m initiative to allow school sports clubs in england to provide up to three hours of extra activity a week by 2010.  it s an important part of education and it s an important part of health   mr blair said. but the conservatives say government proposals - which include two hours  pe within school for 75% of pupils by 2006 - are unrealistic.  the latest move is aimed at encouraging more diversity in sport  with activities such as yoga and tai chi being options. launching the initiative  mr blair completed an agility course and shot basketball hoops with students from the all-girl waverley sports college in southwark  south london. he said:  you ve got to bring back school sport. it s got to be done differently than it was 30 or 40 years ago. it s still very  very important.   earlier  education secretary charles clarke told bbc news there were at least three areas which needed  a coherent framework  and  dedicated funding . these were training for pe teachers  establishing more specialist schools and the development of partnerships for activities such as inter-school competitions. he added the government had originally pledged  for every pupil to get at least two hours of high-quality physical education  a week. the proportion was currently at 62%  and the government was hoping this would rise to 85% by 2008 and 100% by 2010. the money for the initiative will come from a new £500m fund.  the £500m move will also increase the number of specialist sport colleges from 350 to 400. but the conservatives warned of rising obesity levels and said that since only a third of children do two hours of sport a week currently  the government is promising something it cannot guarantee. shadow spokesman for sport hugh robertson said:  i suspect the correct way to tackle it is to look at the other end of the spectrum and try to enable the clubs - which is where the real passion for sport exists - to deliver the school sport offer.  he said more emphasis should be put on traditional sports  saying that an  anti-competitive sport agenda  had been pursued in recent years. martin ward  of the secondary heads association  said members did not like  ring-fenced funds  and that it should be up to the schools themselves to decide how to spend their money.
ebbers denies worldcom fraud former worldcom chief bernie ebbers has denied claims that he knew accountants were doctoring the books at the firm.  speaking in court  mr ebbers rejected allegations he pressured ex-chief financial officer scott sullivan to falsify company financial statements. mr sullivan  made accounting decisions   he told the federal court  saying his finance chief had  a keen command of the numbers . mr ebbers has denied charges of fraud and conspiracy. during his second day of questioning in the new york trial mr ebbers played down his working relationship with mr sullivan and denied he frequently met him to discuss company business when questioned by the prosecution.   in a lot of weeks  we would speak ... three or four times   mr ebbers said  adding that conversations about finances were rarely one-on-one and were usually discussed by a  group of people  instead.  mr ebbers relationship to mr sullivan is key to the case surrounding financial corruption that led to the collapse of the firm in 2002 following the discovery of an $11bn accounting fraud. the prosecution s star witness is mr sullivan  one of six worldcom executives indicted in the case  he has pleaded guilty to fraud and appeared as a prosecution witness as part of an agreement with prosecutors. during his time on the witness stand mr sullivan repeatedly told jurors he met frequently with mr ebbers  told him about changes made to worldcom s accounts to hide costs and had warned him such practises were improper. however during the case on tuesday mr ebbers denied the allegations.  i wasn t advised by scott sullivan of anything ever being wrong   he told the court.  he s never told me he made an entry that wasn t right. if he had  we wouldn t be here today.  mr ebbers could face a jail sentence of up to 85 years if convicted of all the charges he is facing. shareholders lost about $180bn in worldcom s collapse  20 000 workers lost their jobs and the company went bankrupt. the company emerged from bankruptcy last year and is now known as mci.
verizon  seals takeover of mci  verizon has won a takeover battle for us phone firm mci with a bid worth $6.8bn (£3.6bn)  reports say.  the two firms are expected to seal the deal on monday morning  according to news agency reports  despite what was thought to be a higher bid from qwest. the us telecoms market is consolidating fast  with former long-distance giant at&t being bought by former subsidiary sbc earlier this year for $16bn. mci exited bankruptcy in april  having gone bust under previous name worldcom. the bankruptcy followed its admission in 2002 that it illegally booked expenses and inflated profits.  shareholders lost about $180bn when the company collapsed  while 20 000 workers lost their jobs. former worldcom boss bernie ebbers is currently on trial  accused of overseeing an $11bn fraud. qwest has itself come under suspicion of sub-standard behaviour  paying the securities and exchange commission $250m in october to settle charges that it manipulated its results to keep wall street happy.  mci is the us s second-biggest long distance firm after at&t. consolidation in the us telecommunications industry has picked up in the past few months as companies look to cut costs and boost client bases. a merger between mci and verizon would be the fifth billion-dollar telecoms deal since october. last week  sbc communications agreed to buy its former parent and phone trailblazer at&t for about $16bn. buying mci would give either qwest or verizon access to mci s global network and business-based subscribers. the rationale is similar to the one underpinning sbc s at&t deal. verizon is by far the bigger company and has its own successful mobile arm - factors which may have swung the board in its favour since both suitors are offering a mixture of cash and shares.
uk house prices dip in november uk house prices dipped slightly in november  the office of the deputy prime minister (odpm) has said.  the average house price fell marginally to £180 226  from £180 444 in october. recent evidence has suggested that the uk housing market is slowing after interest rate increases  and economists forecast a drop in prices during 2005. but while the monthly figures may hint at a cooling of the market  annual house price inflation is still strong  up 13.8% in the year to november. economists  however  forecast that odpm figures are likely to show a weakening in annual house price growth in coming months.  overall  the housing market activity is slowing down and that is backed up by the mortgage lending and the mortgage approvals data   said mark miller  at hbos treasury services.  the odpm data is a fairly lagging indicator.   the figures come after the bank of england said the number of mortgages approved in the uk has fallen to the lowest level for nearly a decade. the halifax  meanwhile  said last week that house prices increased by 1.1% in december - the first monthly rise since september.  the uk s biggest mortgage lender said prices rose 15.1% over the whole of 2004  but by only 2.8% in the second half of the year. it is predicting a 2% fall in overall prices in 2005 as the market stabilises after large gains in recent years. the odpm attributed the monthly fall of prices in november to a drop in the value of detached houses and flats. it said annual inflation rose between october and november because prices had fallen by 1.1% in the same period in 2003.  the odpm data showed the average house price was £192 713 in england; £139 544 in wales; £116 542 in scotland  and £111 314 in northern ireland.  all areas saw a rise in annual house price inflation in november except for northern ireland and the west midlands  where the rate was unchanged  the odpm said. the north east showed the highest rate of inflation at 26.2%  followed by yorkshire and the humber on 21.7%  and the north west on 21.1%. the east midlands  the west midlands and the south west all had an annual inflation rate of more than 15%. in london  the area with the highest average house price at £262 825  annual inflation rose only slightly in november to 7.1% from 7% the previous month.
q&a: malcolm glazer and man utd the battle for control of manchester united has taken another turn after the club confirmed it had received a fresh takeover approach from us business tycoon malcolm glazer.  no formal offer has been made yet  but manchester united have confirmed they have received a  detailed proposal  from the us entrepreneur which could lead to a bid. reports have put the offer at 300p per share  which would value manchester united at about £800m ($1.5bn). the approach by the 76-year-old owner of the tampa bay buccaneers american football team is reportedly being led by his two sons  avi and joel. a previous approach to the united board by mr glazer in october last year was turned down. however  the bbc has learnt that the club is unlikely to reject the latest plan out of hand.  mr glazer s previous offer involved borrowing large amounts of money to finance any takeover. that would have left the club with debt levels which were deemed  not... in the best interests of the company  by manchester united s board when they rejected his approach last year. however  mr glazer s latest offer is reported to have cut the amount of borrowing needed by £200m.  while united s board may be casting a serious eye over mr glazer s latest proposals  supporters remain fiercely opposed to any deal.  supporters  group shareholders united - which has proved adept in rallying opposition to mr glazer s campaign - said it would fight any move.  manchester united are a debt-free company. we don t want to fall into debt and we don t need to fall into debt   shareholders united s sean bones told the bbc. united s players also appear unhappy at the prospect of a takeover.  a lot of people want the club s interest to be with people who have grown up with the club and got its interests at heart   rio ferdinand told bbc radio five live.  no-one knows what this guy will be bringing to the table.   the key to any successful bid will be attracting the support of united s largest shareholders  the irish horse racing tycoons john magnier and jp mcmanus. through their cubic expression vehicle they own 28.9% of the club. mr glazer owns 28.1%. joe mclean  a football specialist at accountancy firm grant thornton  said the support of mr magnier and mr mcmanus was  utterly crucial .  mr glazer s bid will not proceed without their support and they have previously indicated that they are holding their stake as an investment.  if that s the case  the shares will therefore need a price attachment of about 300 pence  maybe 305.  if that s the case then mr glazer might well secure their support - if he does  this bid could well go ahead.   indeed it is. malcolm glazer was little-known in the uk until he started to build up his stake in manchester united in late 2003. in february 2004 he said he was  considering  whether to bid for the club. no bid emerged  but mr glazer continued to increase his holding in the club. in october 2004  manchester united said they had received a  preliminary approach   which turned out to have come from mr glazer. however  the board rejected the move because of the amount of debt it would involve. at the club s annual general meeting in november  mr glazer took revenge by using his hefty stake in the club to oust three directors from the board. legal adviser maurice watkins  commercial director andy anson and non-executive director philip yea were voted out  against the wishes of chief executive david gill. but the move led to bankers jp morgan and public relations firm brunswick withdrawing from the glazer bid team.
lacroix label bought by us firm luxury goods group lvmh has sold its loss-making christian lacroix clothing label to a us investment group.  the paris-based firm has been shedding non-core businesses and focusing on its most profitable brands including moet & chandon champagne and louis vuitton. lvmh said the french designer s haute couture and ready-to-wear labels had been purchased by the falic group for an unspecified sum. the falic group bought two cosmetics labels from lvmh in 2003. the sale of the lacroix label comes as many fashion houses are struggling to make money from their expensive haute couture ranges. the florida-based falic group  which also runs a chain of 90 duty free stores in the us  said it planned to expand the brand by opening new stores. mr lacroix said he planned to stay at the label he founded in 1987 although exact details are still to be confirmed.
broadband steams ahead in the us more and more americans are joining the internet s fast lane  according to official figures.  the number of people and business connected to broadband jumped by 38% in a year  said the us federal communications commission (fcc). in a report  it said there were more than 32 million broadband connections by the end of june 2004. but the us is still behind compared to other nations  ranked 13th in the world by a un telecoms body.  during his 2004 re-election campaign  president george w bush pledge to ensure that affordable high-speed net access would be available to all americans by 2007.  according to the report by the fcc  broadband is becoming increasingly popular  with people using it for research and shopping  as well as downloading music and watching video. the total number of people and businesses on broadband rose by to 32.5 million in the year ending june 2004  compared to 23.5 million in june 2003. whereas in the uk  most people hook up to broadband via asymmetric digital subscriber line (adsl) technology which lets ordinary copper phone lines support high data speeds. but in the us  cable leads the way  accounting for 18.6 million lines. broadband over the phone line makes up 11.4 million connections  according to the fcc figures.
farrell due to make us tv debut actor colin farrell is to make his debut on us television in medical sitcom scrubs  according to hollywood newspaper daily variety.  the film star  who recently played the title role in historical blockbuster alexander  will make a cameo appearance as an unruly irishman. the episode featuring the 28-year-old will be screened on 25 january. farrell s appearance is said to be a result of his friendship with zach braff  who stars in the programme. it will be the actor s first appearance on the small screen since he appeared in bbc series ballykissangel in 1999. the gentle sunday night drama came to an end in 2001.  he has since become one of hollywood s fastest-rising stars  with a string roles in major league films such as minority report  phone booth and daredevil. farrell is pencilled in to play the role of crockett in a film version of 1980s police drama miami vice. scrubs  which appears on the nbc network in the us and has been shown on channel 4 on british television  is an off-beat comedy about a group of hospital doctors. other film stars to have appeared in scrubs include heather graham  while friends actor matthew perry has guest-starred and directed an episode of the show. its leading star  zach braff  has recently been seen on the big screen in garden state  which he also directed.
gamers could drive high-definition tv  films  and games have been gearing up for some time now for the next revolution to transform the quality of what is on our screens.  it is called high-definition - hd for short - and it is already hugely popular in japan and the us. it is set  according to analysts  to do for images what cds did for sound. different equipment able to receive hd signals is needed though and is expensive. but europe s gamers may be the early adopters to drive demand. europeans will have to wait until at least 2006 until they see mainstream hdtv.  to view it  it needs to be transmitted in hd format  and people need special receivers and displays that can handle the high-quality resolution. the next generation of consoles  however  are expected to start appearing at the end of 2005  start of 2006. and most new computer displays and plasma sets are already capable of handling such high-resolution pictures.  in the next generation [of consoles] hd support is mandatory   dr mark tuffy games systems director at digital content firm thx told the bbc news website.  every game is going to be playable in hd.  so consumers who have gone out and spent all this money on hdtvs  and who have no content to watch  are going to be blown away by these really high-detail pictures.  it s going to change really the way they look at gaming.   at the end of last year  chris deering  sony s european president  made a prediction that 20 million european households would have hdtv sets by 2008. a previous prediction from analysts datamonitor put the figure at 4.6 million by 2008  an increase from an estimated 50 000 sets at the end of 2003. but those in europe may see little point in buying what is quite an expensive bit of technology - about £2 000 - if there are few programmes or films to watch on them. satellite broadcaster bskyb is planning hdtv services in 2006 and the bbc intends to produce all of its content in hd by 2010.  until broadcast rights  format standards - and the practicalities of updating equipment - are agreed  tv content will be limited. all tv images are made up of pixels which go across the screen  and scan lines which go down the screen. most standard uk tv pictures are made up of 625 lines and about 700 pixels. hd offers up to 1 080 active lines  with each line made up of 1 920 pixels. this means the picture is up to six times as sharp as standard tv.  probably  in the uk [gaming] is going to be the only thing you are going to really be able to show off  as in  look what this tv can do   until hd is really adopted by broadcasters   explains dr tuffy. but gamers are also the ideal target audience for hd because they always crave better quality graphics  and more immersive gaming experiences. they are used to spending money on hardware to match a game s requirements. demographics have changed too and the  sweet spot  for the games industry is the gamer in his or her late 20s. this means they are likely to have higher disposable incomes and can afford the price of big-screen  high-definition display technologies and hd projectors  earlier than others.  higher capacity storage discs  such as hd-dvd and blue-ray   are set to be standard in the next round of games consoles - allowing developers more room for detailed graphics.  for console developers though  hd offers some production changes. it could make games production slightly more expensive  thinks dr tuffy.  but we may see the cross-platform development of games becoming more common because they will more easily be able to take a pc game and apply it to a console   he says.  you are literally going to get to the point  with a lord of the rings game for example  is going to be closer and closer to the actual film  especially the cgi stuff from the dvd.  and the transition when they move from a cut scene to the game  just now they have almost got it seamless.  with hd  he says  the transition will be completely seamless and the same quality as the big-screen cinema release. this could herald an increasing convergence between the film and gaming industry. but it may not be until the generation after the next games consoles where the two industries really collide. at that point  says dr tuffy  games could become more or less interactive movies.
blog reading explodes in america americans are becoming avid blog readers  with 32 million getting hooked in 2004  according to new research.  the survey  conducted by the pew internet and american life project  showed that blog readership has shot up by 58% in the last year. some of this growth is attributable to political blogs written and read during the us presidential campaign. despite the explosive growth  more than 60% of online americans have still never heard of blogs  the survey found. blogs  or web logs  are online spaces in which people can publish their thoughts  opinions or spread news events in their own words. companies such as google and microsoft provide users with the tools to publish their own blogs.  the rise of blogs has spawned a new desire for immediate news and information  with six million americans now using rss aggregators. rss aggregators are downloaded to pcs and are programmed to subscribe to feeds from blogs  news sites and other websites. the aggregators automatically compile the latest information published online from the blogs or news sites. reading blogs remains far more popular than writing them  the survey found. only 7% of the 120 million us adults who use the internet had created a blog or web-based diary. getting involved is becoming more popular though  with 12% saying they had posted material or comments on other people s blogs.  just under one in 10 of the us s internet users read political blogs such as the daily kos or instapundit during the us presidential campaign. kerry voters were slightly more likely to read them than bush voters. blog creators were likely to be young  well-educated  net-savvy males with good incomes and college educations  the survey found. this was also true of the average blog reader  although the survey found there was a greater than average growth in blog readership among women and those in minorities. the survey was conducted during november and involved telephone surveys of 1 324 internet users.
kennedy questions trust of blair lib dem leader charles kennedy has said voters now have a  fundamental lack of trust  of tony blair as prime minister.  he said backing his party was not a wasted vote  adding that with the lib dems  what you see is what you get . he made his comments at the start of a day of appearances on channel five in a session on the wright stuff programme. questions from callers  a studio audience and the show s presenter covered lib dem tax plans  anti-terror laws and immigration.  mr kennedy said during his nearly 22 years in parliament he had seen prime ministers and party leaders come and go and knew the pitfalls of british politics.  1983 was when i was first elected as an mp - so tony blair  michael howard and myself were all class of  83 - and over that nearly quarter of a century the world has changed out of recognition   he said.  we don t actually hear the argument any longer:  lib dems  good people  reasonable ideas but only if we thought they could win around here - it s a wasted vote .  you don t hear that because the evidence of people s senses demonstrates that it isn t a wasted vote.  but he said mr blair had lost the trust of the british people.  there is a fundamental lack of trust in tony blair as prime minister and in his government   he said.   what we ve got to do as a party - what i ve got to do as a leader of this party - is to convey to people that what you see is what you get.  mr kennedy also used his tv appearance to defend his party s plans to increase income tax to 50% for those earning more than £100 000  saying it would apply to just 1% of the population. he said the extra revenue would allow his party to get rid of tuition and top-up fees  introduce free personal care for the elderly and replace the council tax with a local income tax. mr blair has already spent a day with five and michael howard is booked for a similar session.
qantas sees profits fly to record australian airline qantas has posted a record fiscal first-half profit thanks to cost-cutting measures.  net profit in the six months ending 31 december rose 28% to a$458.4m ($357.6m; £191m) from a year earlier. analysts expected a figure closer to a$431m. qantas shares fell almost 3%  however  after it warned that earnings growth would slow in the second half. sales will dip by at least a$30m after the indian ocean tsunami devastated many holiday destinations  qantas said.   the tsunami affected travel patterns in ways that we were a bit surprised about   chief executive geoff dixon explained.  it certainly affected japanese travel into australia. as soon as the tsunami hit we saw ... a lessening with bookings for australia.  higher fuel costs also are expected to eat into earnings in coming months.  we don t have as much hedging benefit in the second half as we had in the first   said chief financial officer peter gregg. qantas is facing increased pressure from rivals such as low-cost carrier virgin blue and the australian government is in talks about whether to allow singapore airlines to fly between the australia and the us - one of qantas  key routes.  even so  the firm is predicting that full-year earnings will increase from the previous 12 months. analysts have forecast full-year profit will rise about 11% to around a$720 million ($563 million). qantas boss mr dixon also said he would be reviewing the group s cost-cutting measures. during the first six months of the fiscal year  qantas made savings of a$245m  and is on track to top its target of a$500m for the full year. last month  the company warned it may transfer as many as 7 000 jobs out australia  with mr dixon quoted as saying that the carrier could no longer afford to remain  all-australian .
hi-tech posters guide commuters interactive posters are helping londoners get around the city during the festive season.  when interrogated with a mobile phone  the posters pass on a number that people can call to get information about the safest route home. sited at busy underground stations  the posters are fitted with an infra-red port that can beam information directly to a handset. the posters are part of transport for london s safe travel at night campaign.  the campaign is intended to help londoners  especially women  avoid trouble on the way home. in particular it aims to cut the number of sexual assaults by drivers of unlicensed minicabs. nigel marson  head of group marketing at transport for london (tfl)  said the posters were useful because they work outside the mobile phone networks.  they can work in previously inaccessible areas such as underground stations which is obviously a huge advantage in a campaign of this sort   he said.  the posters will automatically beam information to any phone equipped with an ir port that is held close to the glowing red icon on the poster.  we started with infra-red because there are a huge number ir phones out there   said rachel harker  spokeswoman for hypertag which makes the technology fitted to the posters.  it s a well established technology.  hypertag is also now making a poster that uses short-range bluetooth radio technology to swap data. although the hypertags in the posters only pass on a phone number  ms harker said they can pass on almost any form of data including images  ring tones and video clips. she said that there are no figures for how many people are using the posters but a previous campaign run for a cosmetics firm racked up 12 500 interactions.  before we ran a campaign there was a big question mark of:  if we build it will they come    she said.  now we know that  yes  they will.  the tfl campaign using the posters will run until boxing day.
us composer recreates bach score a us musicologist has recreated a lost musical score by german composer johann sebastian bach.  the 1728 composition  called wedding cantata bwv 216  was found among the papers of japanese pianist chieko hara  who died in japan in 2001 aged 86. the work  written for the wedding of a daughter of a german customs official  was missing for 80 years. joshua rifkin - a composer and leading interpreter of bach - has recreated the missing instrumental parts.  he said he originally wanted to let the lost cantata lie in rest.  maybe a fragment should stay a fragment   said rifkin.  then i thought of palaeontologists  from one bone they figure the entire dinosaur. this is my dinosaur.  the eight rediscovered pages consist of vocal pieces in german for soprano and alto  with the seven movements lasting for a total of between 20 and 25 minutes. the instrumental parts were entirely lost except for two recycled movements  a duet and an aria which had been used elsewhere in bach s work. rifkin likened the challenge to a  musical rubik s cube .  i could not reconstruct what bach wrote but i could give the people of today an idea of what his music was like   he said.  it sounds like bach s music  but the listener should not know which part is bach s and which part is mine.
gebrselassie in london triple bid double olympic 10 000m champion haile gebrselassie will race in the london marathon for the next three years.  the ethiopian legend won sunday s almeria half-marathon in spain on his return from an operation on his achilles tendon. he was third in london in 2002 in his first serious attempt at the marathon.  it is a coup for us to secure haile s presence for the next three years and it guarantees a quality race   said race director david bedford. gebrselassie will face olympic champion stefano baldini  world champion jaouad gharib  and arch-rival paul tergat  the current world record holder.  if i didn t think i could win i would not be here   said gebrselassie  who has set world records on 18 occasions in his illustrious career and is keen to add the marathon record to his collection.  there are a lot of fantastic runners in the race but i shall be doing my utmost to upset them.
lopez misses uk charity premiere jennifer lopez cancelled an appearance at the uk charity premiere of her new movie saying she was too ill to fly.  the actress and singer dropped out at the last minute and has now cancelled all european promotion of the film shall we dance  and her new album. she said:  i very much wanted to be in london but unfortunately i m not well. at the advice of my doctors i m unable to travel.  co-star richard gere attended the event held in aid of the tsunami appeal. thousands braved the cold weather to see the stars in london s leicester square. the red carpet boasted waltzing dancers in honour of the film s ballroom dancing theme. the film s director peter chelsom said he was disappointed that lopez did not attend.   it s a shame. i know it s true that she s not well because she has also cancelled her promotional tour. i ve heard she has swollen glands.  gere  55  greeted the crowd and signed autographs  accompanied by his wife carey lowell. other stars who turned out on the night included honor blackman  strictly come dancing presenter tess daly and actress anita dobson. lopez issues a statement apologising for her absence.  i m so proud of shall we dance and was looking forward to visiting london   she said.  this film was a labour of love for me  and i want to thank everyone involved in bringing it to you  from the cast  to the film director  to the crew.  lopez appeared at the grammy awards on sunday  singing a duet with her third husband marc anthony.
aviator  creator  in oscars snub the man who said he got oscar-nominated movie the aviator off the ground and signed up leonardo dicaprio has been shut out of the academy awards race.  charles evans jr battled over his role with the people who eventually made the film  and won a producer s credit. but he is not on the list of producers who can win a best film oscar due to a limit on the number of nominees. the oscars organisers have picked two of the aviator s four producers to be nominated for best film.  up to three producers can be named per film but the studios behind the aviator and million dollar baby failed to trim their credits - so the academy of motion pictures arts and sciences (ampas) has done it for them. the aviator s nominated producers are michael mann and graham king - with mr evans and sandy climan  mr mann s former deputy  left off. mr evans sued mr mann in 2001  claiming he came up with the idea  spent years developing it and persuaded dicaprio to play hughes - but said he was later excluded from the project. the two sides settled out of court in a deal that has remained secret apart from the fact mr evans  name has appeared as a producer when the film s credits roll. at the golden globes  mr evans - who was named among the winners when the film won best drama film - evaded a security guard to have his photo taken with dicaprio  director martin scorsese  mr mann and mr king.  ampas decided to limit the number of producers who could be nominated after shakespeare in love s victory in 1999 saw five producers collect awards. the eligible names for the aviator and million dollar baby were decided by ampas  producers branch executive committee on wednesday. the decision also saw clint eastwood get his third personal nomination for million dollar baby. he is now named in the best film category as well as being nominated for best director and best lead actor. the academy awards ceremony will be held in hollywood on 27 february. chinese actress ziyi zhang  star of crouching tiger  hidden dragon  hero and house of flying daggers  is the latest name to be added to the list of presenters on the night.
mcilroy aiming for madrid title northern ireland man james mcilroy is confident he can win his first major title at this weekend s spar european indoor championships in madrid.  the 28-year-old has been in great form in recent weeks and will go in as one of the 800 metres favourites.  i believe after my wins abroad and in our trial race in sheffield  i can run my race from the front  back or middle   said mcilroy. new coach tony lester has helped get mcilroy s career back on track. the 28-year-old 800 metres runner has not always matched his promise with performances but believes his decision to change coaches and move base will bring the rewards. mcilroy now lives in windsor and feels his career has been transformed by the no-nonsense leadership style of former army sergeant lester. lester is better known for his work with 400m runners roger black and mark richardson in the past but under his guidance mcilroy has secured five wins this indoor season.  mcilroy now claims he is in his best shape since finishing fourth for ireland at the outdoor european championships in 1998.  that was my last decent year   said mcilroy  who temporarily retired last august before returning to the sport under lester s shrewd guidance.  before  every race was like trying to climb mount everest and i now know you can t do it on your own.  trying to succeed saw me sometimes standing half-dead and terrified on the starting line  which became a bit too much.  mcilroy  who was compared to the likes of sebastian coe  steve cram and steve ovett in his younger days  is now competing without the benefit of national lottery funding. that situation could change if he maintains his current form and repeats the world-class times he produced in the 800m and 1000m at major races in erfurt and stuttgart earlier this season. russian dmitriy bogdanov won at the same madrid venue last week and then claimed the european championship race would be between himself  dutchman arnoud okken and antonio reina of spain but mcilroy is unfazed.  he admitted:  he looked quite good in his win and fair enough everyone has the right to their own opinion.  i never write myself off and let s face it  i haven t or looked like being beaten this season.  and mcilroy  whose time of one minute 46.68seconds in erfurt elevated him to sixth place on the uk all-time list  is also already looking beyond madrid. he said:  i ve been much more focused this year about my career and having such a good team around me has been very important.  ultimately of course  this weekend is a means to an end and that is getting prepared for the summer s world championships.  that ambition has meant that i ve had only two nights out since last august. the rest of my time has seen me just concentrating on rebuilding my career.
s korea spending boost to economy south korea will boost state spending next year in an effort to create jobs and kick start its sputtering economy.  it has earmarked 100 trillion won ($96bn) for the first six months of 2005  60% of its total annual budget. the government s main problems are  slumping consumption and a contraction in the construction industry . it aims to create 400 000 jobs and will focus on infrastructure and home building  as well as providing public firms with money to hire new workers.  the government has set an economic growth rate target of 5% for next year and hinted that would be in danger unless it took action.  internal and external economic conditions are likely to remain unfavourable in 2005   the finance and economy ministry said in a statement.  it blamed  continuing uncertainties such as fluctuating oil prices and foreign exchange rates and stagnant domestic demand that has shown few signs of a quick rebound . in 2004  growth will be between 4.7% and 4.8%  the ministry said. not everyone is convinced the plan will work.  our primary worry centres on the what we believe is the government s overly optimistic view that its front loading of the budget will be enough to turn the economy around   consultancy 4cast said in a report.  the problem facing south korea is that many consumers are reeling from the effects of a credit bubble that only recently burst. millions of south koreans are defaulting on their credit card bills  and the country s biggest card lender has been hovering on the verge of bankruptcy for months. as part of its spending plans  the government said it will ask firms to  roll over mortgage loans that come due in the first half of 2005  . it also pledged to look at ways of helping families on low incomes.  the government voiced concern about the effect of redundancies in the building trade.  given the economic spill over and employment effect in the construction sector  a sharp downturn in the construction industry could have other adverse effects   the ministry said.  as a result  south korea will give private companies also will be given the chance to build schools  hospitals  houses and other public buildings. it also will look at real estate tax system. other plans on the table include promoting new industries such as bio-technology and nano-technology  as well as offering increased support to small and medium sized businesses.  the focus will be on job creation and economic recovery  given that unfavourable domestic and global conditions are likely to dog the korean economy in 2005   the ministry said.
outkast win at mtv europe awards us hip-hop duo outkast have capped a year of award glory with three prizes at the mtv europe music awards in rome.  they won best group  best video and best song for hit hey ya! after getting five nominations. r&b singer usher won best male and best album for confessions  while uk rock band muse were named best alternative act and best british artists. outkast will add their awards to the four they won at the us mtv awards in august and three grammys in february. not only was hey ya! one of the biggest global hits of last year  but outkast have been widely acclaimed as one of the most exciting and innovative acts in music. their double cd album speakerboxxx/the love below  which saw andre 3000 and big boi each produce one disc  was hailed as the album of 2003 by many critics.  andre 3000 thanked fans  for supporting outkast throughout the years .  we really appreciate it   he said.  i hope you don t get tired of us  but we only do what we do.  also competing for best group had been the beastie boys  the black eyed peas  d12 and maroon 5. and anastacia  britney spears  maroon 5 and ludacris had been on the shortlist for best song.  outkast did lose out in the contest for best album - which was won by usher  another award favourite. usher  who performed a duet with alicia keys  also beat off competition from justin timberlake  jay-z  nelly and robbie williams to take the best male crown. he had four nominations going into the ceremony  with seven artists nominated in three categories.  eminem s group  d12  were surprise winners in the best hip-hop category  beating the beastie boys  jay-z  kanye west and nelly. eminem told the crowd:  d12 finally won an award  thank you very much.  the rapper opened the show with a performance of his songs like toy soldiers and just lose it  for which he was joined on stage by a crowd of children. the black eyed peas - who had a global hit with where is the love  - picked up the prize for best pop act  beating anastacia  avril lavigne  robbie williams and britney spears. spears was named best female  sending a message of thanks on video saying the award  means so much to me . alicia keys  anastasia  avril lavigne and beyonce knowles had featured alongside her in that contest.  linkin park singer chester bennington described their prize for best rock band as  quite an honour  while muse said their win for best alternative act was  a real surprise for us . muse were also named best uk and ireland act  ahead of franz ferdinand  natasha bedingfield  jamelia and the streets. referring to the fact that winners of 11 of the 12 main awards were from the us  muse singer matt bellamy said:  there needs to be more european bands.  the 11th annual awards were hosted by hip-hop artist xzibit and watched by 6 000 people at the tor di valle arena  plus millions more on tv around the world. the ceremony featured performances from the beastie boys  who entered the stage on bicycles and skateboards  no doubt singer gwen stefani being lowered from a giant clock and nelly doing a duet with pharrell williams. mtv also organised a huge open-air concert featuring anastacia and the cure outside the italian capital s ancient colosseum  with some estimates putting the attendance there at 200 000. last year s big winner at the mtv europe awards  held in edinburgh  scotland  was justin timberlake  who walked away with three trophies.
us ahold suppliers face charges us prosecutors have charged nine food suppliers with helping dutch retailer ahold inflate earnings by more than $800m (£428m).  the charges have been brought against individuals as well as companies  alleging they created false accounts. ahold hit the headlines in february 2003 after it emerged that there were accounting irregularities at its us subsidiary foodservice. three former ahold top executives last year agreed to settle fraud charges.  ahold has admitted that it fraudulently inflated promotional allowances at foodservice  improperly consolidated joint ventures and also committed other accounting errors and irregularities.  the nine now charged  who worked as suppliers to ahold  are accused of signing false documents relating to the amount of money they paid the retailer for promoting their products in its stores. food companies pay supermarkets and retailers for prime shelf space. the suppliers in question are said to have inflated the amount of money they paid  providing auditors with signed letters that allowed ahold to inflate its earnings. us attorney david kelley said he expects the nine vendors will plead guilty to the charges. he added that there may be more court actions in the future.  i don t want to leave you with the impression that these were the only ones involved   he said. among those facing charges are john nettle  a former employee of general mills; mark bailin of rymer international seafood; tim daly of michael foods and kenneth bowman  who worked as an independent contractor for total foods.  others include michael hannigan of sugar foods; peter marion of maritime seafood processors and first choice foods; gordon redgate of commodity manager and private label distribution; bruce robinson of basic american foods and michael rogers  formerly of tyson foods. pasquale d amuro of the fbi called the nine vendors the key ingredients in  the process of cooking the books  at ahold. at the time of the scandal  ahold was seen by many as europe s enron. ahold shares tumbled on the news and many market observers predicted that the fall out could damage investor confidence across europe. it was less severe than many had envisaged  however  and since then ahold has worked hard at rebuilding its reputation and investor confidence. ahold is the world s fourth-largest supermarket chain. its other us businesses include stop & shop  and giant food.
gurkhas to help tsunami victims britain has offered to send a company of 120 gurkhas to assist with the tsunami relief effort in indonesia  downing street said.  the deployment would involve troops from the 2nd battalion royal gurkha rifles  based in brunei. discussions have begun with indonesia on the exact timing and location of the deployment  but the government said the offer was aimed at the aceh province. downing st said a similar offer might be made to the sri lankan government.  however a spokesman pointed out that there were particular logistical difficulties in indonesia which the gurkhas might be able to help with. the spokesman said:  following this morning s daily coordination meeting on the post-tsunami relief effort  the government has formally offered the indonesian government the assistance of a company of british army gurkhas from 2nd battalion royal gurkha rifles around 120 personnel and two helicopters.  this is in addition to the ships and aircraft we have already committed to the relief operation in the indian ocean.   indonesia was by far the country worst affected by the tsunami  with 94 000 of the 140 000 confirmed deaths so far. international development minister gareth thomas said the assistance offer would most likely focus on the northern province of aceh.  we have offered the gurkhas to help in the process of scaling up the relief effort  particularly in aceh which is undoubtedly the hardest hit area in the indian ocean at the moment   he said.  we ve also had raf aircraft flying in equipment which the un desperately need in order to set up a truly effective relief operation on the ground in aceh province as well.  the offer comes as the foreign secretary jack straw arrives in indonesia for a special summit meeting on the disaster.
internet boom for gift shopping cyberspace is becoming a very popular destination for christmas shoppers.  forecasts predict that british people will spend £4bn buying gifts online during the festive season  an increase of 64% on 2003. surveys also show that the average amount that people are spending is rising  as is the range of goods that they are happy to buy online. savvy shoppers are also using the net to find the hot presents that are all but sold out in high street stores.  almost half of the uk population now shop online according to figures collected by the interactive media in retail group which represents web retailers. about 85% of this group  18m people  expect to do a lot of their christmas gift buying online this year  reports the industry group. on average each shopper will spend £220 and britons lead europe in their affection for online shopping.  almost a third of all the money spent online this christmas will come out of british wallets and purses compared to 29% from german shoppers and only 4% from italian gift buyers. james roper  director of the imrg  said shoppers were now much happier to buy so-called big ticket items such as lcd television sets and digital cameras. mr roper added that many retailers were working hard to reassure consumers that online shopping was safe and that goods ordered as presents would arrive in time for christmas. he advised consumers to give shops a little more time than usual to fulfil orders given that online buying is proving so popular. a survey by hostway suggests that many men prefer to shop online to avoid the embarrassment of buying some types of presents  such as lingerie  for wives and girlfriends. much of this online shopping is likely to be done during work time  according to research carried out by security firm saint bernard software. the research reveals that up to two working days will be lost by staff who do their shopping via their work computer. worst offenders will be those in the 18-35 age bracket  suggests the research  who will spend up to five hours per week in december browsing and buying at online shops.  iggy fanlo  chief revenue officer at shopping.com  said that the growing numbers of people using broadband was driving interest in online shopping.  when you consider narrowband and broadband the conversion to sale is two times higher   he said. higher speeds meant that everything happened much faster  he said  which let people spend time browsing and finding out about products before they buy.  the behaviour of online shoppers was also changing  he said.  the single biggest reason people went online before this year was price   he said.  the number one reason now is convenience.   very few consumers click on the lowest price   he said.  they are looking for good prices and merchant reliability.  consumer comments and reviews were also proving popular with shoppers keen to find out who had the most reliable customer service. data collected by ebay suggests that some smart shoppers are getting round the shortages of hot presents by buying them direct through the auction site. according to ebay uk there are now more than 150 robosapiens remote control robots for sale via the site. the robosapiens toy is almost impossible to find in online and offline stores. similarly many shoppers are turning to ebay to help them get hold of the hard-to-find slimline playstation 2  which many retailers are only selling as part of an expensive bundle. the high demand for the playstation 2 has meant that prices for it are being driven up. in shops the ps2 is supposed to sell for £104.99. in some ebay uk auctions the price has risen to more than double this figure. many people are also using ebay to get hold of gadgets not even released in this country. the portable version of the playstation has only just gone on sale in japan yet some enterprising ebay users are selling the device to uk gadget fans.
minister hits out at yukos sale russia s renationalisation of its energy industry needs to be reversed  a senior government figure has warned.  economy minister german gref told the kommersant newspaper that direct state involvement in oil was  unjustified . his comments follow the sale of much of oil giant yukos to cover back taxes - a deal which effectively took most of the firm s assets into public ownership. on 28 december  another senior economic adviser called the sale  the swindle of the century . yuganskneftegaz  the unit which produced 60% of yukos  output  had been seized and sold in december for less than $10bn to a previously unknown firm called baikal.  baikal promptly passed into the hands of state-controlled firm rosneft  itself shortly to merge with state gas giant gazprom.  we used to see street hustlers do this kind of thing   andrei illarionov - then economic adviser to president vladimir putin - told a press conference.  now officials are doing it.  within days  he was stripped of most of his responsibilities.  mr gref  a well-known opponent of nationalisation in competitive parts of the market  was keen to distance himself from mr iliaronov s comments. the privatisation of companies such as yukos in the 1990s had been badly handled  he said. but he stressed that the government needed to get out of oil.  i think that rosneft and yuganskneftegaz  should it become a state-owned company  must be privatized   he said.   today our government is ineffective and state companies  as a result  are for the overwhelming part ineffective as well.  and he warned that using back taxes to deal with firms like yukos - a technique now being applied by the kremlin to several other firms - was a mistake.  if we follow that logic  we should nationalise all businesses   he said. many large russian companies  particularly in the energy sector  use complex webs of offshore companies to avoid taxes.  mr gref also poured cold water on president putin s promises of doubled economic growth within a decade. the assault on yukos  assets has been widely blamed for a slowdown in economic growth in recent months.  the task is not simply to double gdp; instead it is to use gdp to qualitatively improve people s lives   mr gref told kommersant.  we don t need simply to increase gdp  but to improve its structure.  instead of focusing on headline growth figures  russia needed to focus on better institutions  such as a more efficient - and less corrupt - court system.
labour faces  cold calls  inquiry labour is to be investigated by a watchdog over claims its election campaign has broken the rules on  cold calling  householders.  the information commissioner is to look into a complaint from the lib dems about how labour uses its call centres. the lib dems say labour is telephoning people who have signed up to make sure they do not get marketing calls. labour denies breaking rules. it says calls are not marketing if they just ask about people s voting intentions. the party says it would expect the watchdog to take complaints seriously but it has clear legal advice on the issue.  telephone call centres are expected to be used as never before by all the three major parties in the run-up to the general election. but seven million telephone numbers are on the telephone preference service (tps) lists  which ban unsolicited sales and marketing calls. lib dem chairman matthew taylor has written to the watchdog accusing labour of a  flagrant and systematic breach  of the laws governing the tps.  he says the initial call may not be marketing but it identifies voters to whom the party can send promotional material in the future. his letter to the commissioner quotes from a labour party handbook about  identifying target voters . and it quotes a stevenage labour party members  newsletter explaining how voters will be telephoned about their voting intentions.  the voters are put in 24 categories according to their last known voting intention  ranging from  labour (firm)  to  target (conservative)  - those who supported the party in the past but this time will be voting tory. the newsletter says:  using the information we know about people  we can send them direct mailings.  for example  we could send the target (conservative) people a letter from someone who had defected from the tories to labour explaining the reasons why voting tory is a bad idea or we could send labour (weak) people a letter encouraging them to sign up for a postal vote.   mr taylor tells the commissioner:  it is clear beyond peradventure from the above that the labour party is engaging in a large-scale voter id project for subsequent promotional purposes through targeted and segmented mailings.  insofar as this project is directed at tps subscribers  it is equally clear that it is unlawful.  the lib dems raised worries about labour and conservative calls in february and 680 people have signed up to the website they set up to help people to complain. a party official said there was only scattered evidence of the tories breaking the rules but people had complained every day about labour.  a spokeswoman for the information commissioner s office said it was examining one complaint about political calls - understood to be mr taylor s.  we are investigating one of the complaints where some evidence has been given to us   she said.  obviously evidence is needed for us to start investigations.  the commissioner s office will now examine the lib dem evidence.  the guidance is that cold calling can be made as long as no marketing is going on   said the spokeswoman. if labour is judged to have broken the rules  it will be asked stop immediately. if it fails to do so after two or three warning letters  the commissioner can issue an enforcement notice spelling out what the party needs to do or stop doing.  the party could appeal against the decision to an information tribunal. if the appeal fails and it continues breaking the rules  it could be fined up to £5 000. labour says it avoids those on tps lists when telephoning people about membership or fundraising but not when making  voter identification  calls. asked about the commissioner s inquiry  a labour spokesman told bbc news:  we expect the information commissioner to take any complaint seriously. however  we are absolutely clear that we haven t broken any rules.  as the information commissioner himself has said  if people are not marketing something  if they are asking them which way they are going to vote  they are not in breach of the law.  we always ask everyone we phone up whether they would be happy to be contacted by the labour party again.
hotspot users gain free net calls people using wireless net hotspots will soon be able to make free phone calls as well as surf the net.  wireless provider broadreach and net telephony firm skype are rolling out a service at 350 hotspots around the uk this week. users will need a skype account - downloadable for free - and they will then be able to make net calls via wi-fi without paying for net access. skype allows people to make free pc-based calls to other skype users.  users of the system can also make calls to landlines and mobiles for a fee. the system is gaining in popularity and now has 28 million users around the world. its paid service - dubbed skype out - has so far attracted 940 000 users. it plans to add more paid services with forthcoming launches of video conferencing  voice mail and skype in  a service which would allow users to receive phone calls from landlines and mobiles. london-based software developer connectotel has unveiled software that will expand the sms functions of skype  allowing users to send text messages to mobile phones from the service. broadreach networks has around two million users and hotspots in places such as virgin megastores  the travelodge chain of hotels and all london s major rail terminals. the company is due to launch wi-fi on virgin trains later in the year.  skype s success at spreading the world about internet telephony is well-known and we are delighted to be offering free access to skype users in our hotspots   commented broadreach chief executive magnus mcewen-king.
continental  may run out of cash  shares in continental airlines have tumbled after the firm warned it could run out of cash.  in a filing to us regulators the airline warned of  inadequate liquidity  if it fails to reduce wage costs by $500m by the end of february. continental also said that  if it did not make any cuts  it expects to lose  hundreds of millions of dollars  in 2005 in current market conditions. failure to make cutbacks may also push it to reduce its fleet  the group said. shares in the fifth biggest us carrier had fallen 6.87% on the news to $10.44 by 1830 gmt.  without the reduction in wage and benefit costs and a reasonable prospect of future profitability  we believe that our ability to raise additional money through financings would be uncertain   continental said in its filing to the us securities and exchange commission (sec).  airlines have faced tough conditions in recent years  amid terrorism fears since the 11 september world trade centre attack in 2001. but despite passengers returning to the skies  record-high fuel costs and fare wars prompted by competition from low cost carriers have taken their toll. houston-based continental now has debt and pension payments of nearly $984m which it must pay off this year. the company has been working to streamline its operations - and has managed to save $1.1bn in costs without cutting jobs. two weeks  ago the group also announced it would be able to shave a further $48m a year from its costs with changes to wage and benefits for most of its us-based management and clerical staff.
asian banks halt dollar s slide the dollar regained some lost ground against most major currencies on wednesday after south korea and japan denied they were planning a sell-off.  the dollar suffered its biggest one-day fall in four months on tuesday on fears that asian central banks were about to lower their reserves of dollars. japan is the biggest holder of dollar reserves in the world  with south korea the fourth largest. the dollar was buying 104.76 yen at 0950 gmt  0.5% stronger on the day. it also edged higher against both the euro and the pound  with one euro worth $1.3218  and one pound buying $1.9094. concerns over rising oil prices and the outlook for the dollar pushed down us stock markets on tuesday; the dow jones industrial average closed down 1.6%  while the nasdaq lost 1.3%.  the dollar s latest slide began after a south korean parliamentary report suggested the country  which has about $200bn in foreign reserves  had plans to boost holdings of currencies such as the australian and canadian dollar. on wednesday  however  south korea moved to steady the financial markets. it issued a statement that  the bank of korea will not change the portfolio of currencies in its reserves due to short term market factors . japan  too  steadied nerves. a senior japanese finance ministry official told reuters  we have no plans to change the composition of currency holdings in the foreign reserves  and we are not thinking about expanding our euro holdings . japan has $850bn in foreign exchange reserves. at the start of the year  the us currency  which had lost 7% against the euro in the final three months of 2004 and had fallen to record lows  staged something of a recovery. analysts  however  pointed to the dollar s inability recently to extend that rally despite positive economic and corporate data  and highlighted the fact that many of the us s economic problems had not disappeared. the focus has been on the country s massive trade and budget deficits  and analysts have predicted more dollar weakness to come.
uk interest rates held at 4.75% the bank of england has left interest rates on hold again at 4.75%  in a widely-predicted move.  rates went up five times from november 2003 - as the bank sought to cool the housing market and consumer debt - but have remained unchanged since august. recent data has indicated a slowdown in manufacturing and consumer spending  as well as in mortgage approvals. and retail sales disappointed over christmas  with analysts putting the drop down to less consumer confidence.  rising interest rates and the accompanying slowdown in the housing market have knocked consumers  optimism  causing a sharp fall in demand for expensive goods  according to a report earlier this week from the british retail consortium. the brc said britain s retailers had endured their worst christmas in a decade.   today s no change decision is correct   said david frost  director general of the british chambers of commerce (bcc).  but  if there are clear signs that the economy slows  the mpc should be ready to take quick corrective action and cut rates.  dismal reports from the retail trade about christmas sales are worrying  if they indicate a more general weakening in consumer spending.   mr frost added:  the housing market outlook remains highly uncertain.  it is widely accepted that  if house prices start falling more sharply  the risks facing the economy will worsen considerably.  cbi chief economist ian mccafferty said the economy had  slowed in recent months in response to rate rises  but that it was difficult to gauge from the christmas period the likely pace of activity through the summer.  the bank is having to juggle the emergence of inflationary pressures  driven by a tight labour market and buoyant commodity prices  against the risk of an over-abrupt slowdown in consumer activity   he said.  interest rates are likely to remain on hold for some time.   on thursday there was more gloomy news on the manufacturing front  as the office for national (ons) statistics revealed british manufacturing output unexpectedly fell in november - for the fifth month in the past six. the ons said manufacturing output dropped 0.1% in november  matching a similar unrevised fall in october and confounding economists  expectations of a 0.3% rise. manufacturers  organisation  the eef  said it expected the hold in interest rates to continue in the near future. it also said there was evidence that manufacturers  confidence may be waning as the outlook for the world economy becomes more uncertain.   so far the evidence suggests that last year s rate increases have helped to rebalance the economy without damaging the recovery in manufacturing   said eef chief economist  steve radley.  however  should the business outlook start to deteriorate  the bank should stand ready to cut rates.  some economists have predicted rates will drop later in the year  although others feel the bank may still think there is a need for a rise to 5% before that happens. the bank remains concerned about the long-term risks posed by personal debt - which is rising at 15% a year - if economic conditions worsen.
schools to take part in mock poll record numbers of schools across the uk are to take part in a mock general election backed by the government.  some 600 schools have already signed up for the y vote mock elections 2005 run by the hansard society and aimed at boosting interest in politics. pupils in the schools taking part will learn the skills of speech writers  canvassers and political candidates. schools minister stephen twigg said engaging young people s interest was  essential  to the future of democracy.  he added: said  young people who are engaged and motivated by the political process are essential to the future health of our democracy.  the mock elections initiative provides an opportunity for pupils to develop their own understanding of how the democratic process works and why it matters.  by experiencing the election process first hand - from running a campaign to the declaration of the final result - we hope that young people will develop the enthusiasm to take part in the future.  the hansard society  the electoral commission and the department for education and skills are running the programme. pupils will stand as party candidates  speech writers and canvassers. michael raftery  project manager at the hansard society  said:  the y vote mock elections for schools mirror the excitement and buzz of a real election  raising awareness of citizenship  and the benefits of active democracy.  the mock votes will take place around 5 may  widely expected to be the date of the general election. information packs  including ballot papers and manifesto guides  with elections happening in early may were sent out to the 3 000 schools invited to take part.
new browser wins over net surfers the proportion of surfers using microsoft s internet explorer (ie) has dropped to below 90%  say web analysts.  net traffic monitor  onestat.com  has reported that the open-source browser firefox 1.0  released on 9 november  seems to be drawing users away from ie. while ie s market share has dropped 5% since may to 88.9%  mozilla browsers - including firefox - have grown by 5%. firefox is made by the mozilla foundation which was set up by former browser maker netscape in 1998. although there have been other preview versions of firefox  version 1.0 was the first complete official program.  it seems that people are switching from microsoft s internet explorer to mozilla s new firefox browser   said niels brinkman  co-founder of amsterdam-based onestat.com.  mozilla browsers - including firefox 1.0 - now have 7.4% of the market share  the figures suggest. mozilla said that more than five million have downloaded the free software since its official release. supporters of the open-source software in the us managed to raise $250 000 (£133 000) to advertise the release of firefox 1.0 in the new york times  and support the mozilla foundation. there was a flurry of downloads on its first day of release.  the figures echo similar research from net analyst websidestory which suggested that ie had 92.9% of users in october compared to 95.5% in june. microsoft ie has dominated the browser market for some time after taking the crown from netscape  and its share of users has always stayed at around the 95% mark. firefox is attractive to many because it is open-source. that means people are free to adapt the software s core code to create other innovative features  like add-ons or extensions to the program. fewer security holes have also been discovered so far in firefox than in ie. paul randle  microsoft windows client product manager  responded to the figures:  we certainly respect that some customers will choose alternative browsers and that choosing a browser is about more than a handful of features.  microsoft continues to make significant investments in ie  including service pack 2 with advanced security technologies  and continues to encourage a vibrant ecosystem of third party add-ons for internet explorer.  firefox wants to capture 10% of the market by the end of 2005. other browser software  like opera and apple s safari  are also challenging microsoft s grip on the browser market. opera is set to release its version 7.60 by the end of the year. onestat.com compiled the statistical measurements from two million net users in 100 countries.
injury sidelines philippoussis mark philippoussis withdrew from the sydney international tennis tournament as expected on sunday after suffering a groin injury during the hopman cup.  his participation in the australian open  which begins on 17 january in melbourne  also remains in doubt. defending women s champion justine henin-hardenne is also out of the sydney event because of a knee injury. in the only main draw men s or women s singles match on sunday  nathalie dechy beat american lisa raymond 7-5 6-3. number one men s seed lleyton hewitt begins his quest for a fourth sydney title on tuesday when he plays karol beck. lindsay davenport  top seed in the women s draw  has been handed a first-round bye and plays france s dechy in the second round on tuesday.
hague s six-figure earnings shown the rewards of leaving front-bench politics are shown in the latest annual register of members  interests.  the register shows former tory leader william hague earning up to £820 000 on top of his mps  salary  much of it from speaking fees. his former shadow chancellor michael portillo makes up to £560 000 a year - partly because of speeches and tv work. ex-health secretary alan milburn earned up to £85 000 from speeches  articles and advice while not in the cabinet.  mr milburn was away from the frontbench for just more than a year between stepping down as health secretary and becoming labour s election supremo. his declared interests include £20 000 from newspaper articles and fees of up to £35 000 for four speeches. he also commanded a salary of between £25 000 and £35 000 for being on investment company bridgepoint capital s european advisory committee. his time out of office will  however  have lost him his £71 433 minister s salary. mr hague s work outside parliament included two one-man shows  which with other speaking fees netted him up to £480 000. he also earned up to £195 000 for a weekly column in the news of the world  and between £5 000 and £10 000 for presenting bbc 2 s have i got news for you. mr hague was also paid an undisclosed amount for the newspaper serialisation of his biography of william pitt the younger and up to £135 00 for work as an adviser to various companies.  former defence secretary michael portillo makes some of his money as a non-executive director of bae systems. he is to stand down as an mp at the next election. and former foreign secretary robin cook was paid between £45 001 and £50 000 for the paperback edition of his book about his resignation from government. his declared income of up to £205 000 also includes payments for being a consultant to the tote and for his regular column in the guardian newspaper. the register also shows former home office minister ann widdecombe declaring a £100 000 advance for her third and fourth novels. she also received up to £30 000 for acting as the guardian s agony aunt and between £5 001 and £10 000 for appearing on itv s celebrity fit club. david blunkett has become a paid adviser to indepen consulting limited now he is not home secretary - he helps them with seminars about the relationship between government and business. he earns between £5 001and £10 000 for the work.  tony blair s entry confirms that king abdullah of jordan paid for him to fly from a holiday in egypt to official discussions - and for a sightseeing tour to wadi rum. tory leader michael howard s only fresh entry is a christmas hamper from the sultan of brunei. he also declares a trip to mexico last year to address executives of news international  and helicopter and private jet travel paid for by supporters. liberal democrat leader charles kennedy registered donations to his office from supporters  a free ticket to last year s bafta awards and rent from a single-bedroom flat in london. the register only contains new information for december 2004 - but monday saw the publication of the annual review of the register  with the year s details. the payments are shown in bands of up £5 000  making it difficult to calculate the exact earnings.
children vote shrek 2 best film young uk film fans voted animated hollywood hit shrek 2 best film at the children s bafta awards on sunday.  more than 6 000 children voted in the only category chosen by fans. harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban  runner-up in the poll  was the choice of the bafta experts who named it best feature film. bbc one saturday morning show dick and dom in da bungalow won two awards - best entertainment and best presenters for richard mccourt and dominic wood.  former playschool presenter floella benjamin was awarded the special award for outstanding creative contribution to children s film and television. she first appeared on playschool 25 years ago and was made an obe in 2001 for services to broadcasting. south american-themed cartoon joko! jakamoko! toto! won the honour for pre-school animation and its writer tony collingwood for original writer. debbie isitt won the award for best adapted writer for her work with jacqueline wilson s the illustrated mum  which won the award for best schools drama.  schools  factual (primary) - thinking skills: think about it - hiding places  schools  factual (secondary) - in search of the tartan turban  pre-school live action - balamory  animation - brush head  drama - featherboy  factual - serious desert interactive bafta - king arthur international category - 8 simple rules for dating my teenage daughter
blair defends terror law changes the prime minister has defended measures to allow house arrest without trial  saying  several hundred  people in the uk are plotting terror attacks.  the government is facing opposition from tory and lib dem mps and its own backbenchers as it prepares for the final commons debate on the changes. but tony blair said there could be no concession on the  basic principle . mr blair told the bbc the  control orders  would only be used in the most limited circumstances. critics in the opposition and civil rights activists are worried that the home secretary will have the power to issue the detention orders. but the government has so far resisted pressure for judges to be responsible for making the orders  instead saying judges will be able to quash them.  an explanation is being sent by home secretary charles clarke to all mps and peers ahead of the final debate in the house of commons. on sunday  conservative shadow home secretary david davis claimed judges would get the powers to issue detention orders. and liberal democrat leader charles kennedy said some concessions had already been offered by the government during last-minute negotiations. some 32 labour mps voted against the legislation last week. barbara follett  whose first husband was killed while under house arrest in south africa during the apartheid era  confirmed she would vote against the government.  but the government is continuing to insist that  control orders  must be issued by the home secretary. mr blair told bbc radio 4 s woman s hour:  we are being advised by the police and the security services...  what they say is you have got to give us powers in between mere surveillance of these people - there are several hundred of them in this country who we believe are engaged in plotting or trying to commit terrorist acts - you have got to give us power in between just surveying them and being able  being sure enough of the proof  to prosecute them beyond reasonable doubt.  and these will be restrictions on their liberty that we will use only in the most limited circumstances.   a yougov poll in the daily telegraph suggested 75% of respondents thought action was sometimes necessary against people who had not committed an offence but who had been found by intelligence services to be planning a terrorist attack. but tory leader michael howard told bbc news that the government was again making a mistake in  rushing  anti-terrorism legislation.  i very much hope it would be possible to reach a compromise on this.  he said after meeting tony blair he had been left with the impression that  he really wasn t interested in any of the various proposals we have put forward . mr clarke wants house arrest and other powers to replace indefinite jail for terror suspects - something the law lords have ruled against on the basis that it breaches human rights. bbc political correspondent vicky young said some form of concession on the measures was likely to be needed to get the legislation through the house of lords  where labour does not have a majority and would require support from other parties. shami chakrabarti  director of civil liberties pressure group liberty  said who was able to issue the control orders was not the main issue. she said the legislation was  a travesty and a perversion of justice  and would remain  unpalatable  even if a judge was involved early in the process.
arnesen denies rift with santini tottenham sporting director frank arnesen has denied that coach jacques santini resigned because of a clash of personalities at white hart lane.  there had been newspaper speculation that santini had felt undermined by arnesen s role at the club.  it is absolutely not true   arnesen told bbc radio five live.  there is only one thing that made him resign and that is his own personal problems.  he has talked to me recently and said this matter is absolutely for himself.  arnesen said he was unable to throw any light onto the problems that caused santini to quit after just 13 games in charge. he added:  jacques has never gone into exactly what it was. but i trust him in that; you have to accept it. i think we should respect it.   the plan is now that over the weekend we will have talks with the board and then on monday we will clarify the situation.  arnesen countered criticism at the timing of the announcement  coming less than 24 hours before tottenham s premiership fixture with charlton.  when it comes down to personal problems  i don t think we should talk about timing   he said. and he also denied reports that santini had been given a £3m pay-off.  that is absolute nonsense. he is the one who said  i will go  and so he went    said the spurs sporting director. tottenham s structure of having a sporting director working alongside a coach is based on a continental model and arnesen sees no reason why they should change it.   i have confidence in this structure. i am confident that we have started something here in july and i still have a lot of confidence in tottenham and what we are doing   he said. however  former spurs and england defender gary stevens said he would not be surprised if the system had caused a rift.  i think the problems go a lot deeper  between the director of football at white hart lane and santini   stevens told five live.  on paper they could have worked together. but frank arnesen was a very creative  forward-thinking and expansive player - whereas i think santini was very much the opposite  more a case of being organised  disciplined and happy not conceding goals.  that sort of arrangement can work if the two people have the same principles and ideals and work very closely. but it seems that has not happened.
&#163;1.8m indecency fine for viacom media giant viacom has paid out $3.5m (£1.8m) to end investigations into indecency in its us radio and tv shows.  the settlement to the federal communications commission (fcc) ends a long-running saga dating back to 2001. the fcc was looking into 50 shows  including those by  shock jock  howard stern and two new york djs. stern recently announced he was leaving viacom while the two djs were sacked after their show featured a couple purporting to have sex in a church. after the church incident two years ago viacom agreed to install audio delay equipment at its radio stations that broadcast live programming.  it also agreed to train its broadcasters and employees about indecency laws. the agreement cancels investigations into about 50 radio and television shows  said richard diamond  fcc deputy secretary of communications. the shows were broadcast by viacom-owned stations across the united states. viacom has five days to pay the $3.5m fine  according to the agreement. the payment is not related to the fcc s $550 000 (£293 000) fine levied against viacom after the exposure of singer janet jackson s breast during the cbs super bowl halftime show in january. viacom is contesting that fine. it is not the first time that viacom has paid out over indecency charges. infinity broadcasting  which is owned by viacom  paid cumulative fines totalling $1.7m (£907 000) in 1995 to settle fcc violations by stern.
roxy music on isle of wight bill roxy music will appear at june s isle of wight music festival  along with morrissey  supergrass and idlewild.  rem have already been confirmed as headliners for the three-day event  which takes place from 10-12 june. original band members bryan ferry  phil manzerana  andy mackay and paul thompson will take to the stage on the saturday night of the festival. the band are also working in the studio on new material  their first since the 1982 album avalon. roxy music were formed in 1971 by ferry  mackay and brian eno  with manzanera joining the following year. their first hit was 1972 s virginia plain  with other hits including street life  love is the drug and the 1981 john lennon cover  jealous guy. roxy music s back catalogue was re-released in 2000  leading to the band undertaking a world tour in 2001. morrissey will also play on saturday at the festival  while supergrass and idlewild have been confirmed for the friday.
mourinho plots impressive course chelsea s win at fulham - confirming their position at the premiership summit - proves that they now have everything in place to mount serious challenges on all fronts this season.  they have got strength in depth  great players  an outstanding manager in jose mourinho and finances no other club in the world can match. all they need to add now is the big prizes which  as we all know  is the most difficult part of all. one thing is certain - they have put themselves in a position to make that leap to success very impressively indeed. they beat a very tough everton at stamford bridge  won at newcastle in the carling cup  and then won 4-1 at fulham  which was a great result given that they had been showing good form. as i said  winning the major honours is the hardest task of all  but in mourinho they have a manager who will make it a whole lot easier to handle the anticipation and expectation that will come their way now. mourinho has won the biggest club prize of all  the champions league  and that track record and confidence transmits itself to top players. it is a priceless commodity. no-one can be anything other than highly-impressed by mourinho. he is regarded as a touch arrogant by some people  and maybe he can appear that way  but he has the silverware to back up the talk. mourinho doesn t simply talk a good game - he s won some very big games such as the champions league final with porto. some may criticise his talk  but the words are backed up with actions. i ve also found him to be very realistic whenever i ve heard him. he s spent a lot of money and it seems to be working  and we should remember lots of managers have spent money and it has not worked. the buys are now integrating  and in arjen robben he has the player who is giving them that extra dimension.  in the early games he was slaughtered for defensive tactics  and yet he was winning games. you cannot win titles early on in the season  but you can certainly lose them and those points on the board were vital. i also thought the criticism was very harsh  because even though they were not scoring goals they were creating chances by the hatful. now they are taking those chances  have the double threat of robben and damien duff  and things are looking good. i just wonder if they lack a predator  particularly with didier drogba injured. he was starting to look the part before he was sidelined  but you have to feel if chelsea had a ruud van nistelrooy they would be even more of a safe bet for the title. chelsea also have all the tools to go far in the champions league. i felt they would never have a better chance than last season  but they have swept all before them in europe so far this season. it will now be very interesting to see how mourinho prioritises things  but his life will be made easier by the size of chelsea s squad. i have said i believed chelsea would win the league this season  even when arsenal were flying at the start  and i have seen nothing to make me change me mind.  if anything  what i have seen has confirmed my early impressions. and chelsea would have taken encouragement from arsenal s rocky defensive display at spurs  even though they ran out 5-4 winners. mourinho had his say on that game  complaining:  five-four is a hockey score  not a football score.  in a three-against-three training match  if the score reaches 5-4 i send the players back to the dressing rooms as they are not defending properly.  so to get a result like that in a game of 11 against 11 is disgraceful.   on a more serious note  it was a game that merely confirmed the importance of sol campbell to arsenal. much criticism has been aimed at pascal cygan  but i believe the problem lies with the absence of campbell and its overall effect on arsenal s defence. confidence is a crucial factor in defending. when you start conceding goals  you suddenly get a chill in the bones every time the ball comes into the penalty area. you think  oh no  - then find your worst fears confirmed. arsenal need to reverse the process  with or without campbell  and get some clean sheets on the board. but the return of campbell is key. he solidifies the unit  has pace and is powerful in the air and on the deck. he is vastly experienced and has a calming influence on all around him. campbell pulls it all together at the back and gets the defence playing as a unit. chelsea have no such problems at present  which is why i would still place my money on them to edge out arsenal as champions this season.
labour chooses manchester the labour party will hold its 2006 autumn conference in manchester and not blackpool  it has been confirmed.  the much trailed decision was ratified by labour s ruling national executive committee in a break with the traditional choice of a seaside venue. it will be the first time since 1917 that the party has chosen manchester to host the annual event. blackpool will get the much smaller february spring conference instead in what will be seen as a placatory move.  for years the main political parties have rotated between blackpool  bournemouth and brighton. and the news the much larger annual conference is not to gather in blackpool will be seen as a blow in the coastal resort. in 1998 the party said it would not return to blackpool but did so in 2002. the following year bournemouth hosted the event before the party signed a two year deal for brighton to host the autumn conference.  colin asplin  blackpool hotel association said:  we have tried very hard to make sure they come back to blackpool.  obviously we have failed in that. i just hope manchester can handle the crowds.  it amazes me that the labour party  which is a working class party  doesn t want to come to the main working class resort in the country.  the exact cost to blackpool in terms of lost revenue for hotel accommodation is not yet known but it is thought that block bookings will be taken at the major manchester hotels after the official announcement.
nadal marches on in mexico rafael nadal continued his run of fine form to beat guillermo canas and reach the mexican open semis in acapulco.  eighth seed nadal  who picked up his second atp title when he beat alberto martin in last week s brazil open  saw off the argentine third seed 7-5 6-3. he now meets argentine wild card mariano puerta  who followed up his win over top seed carlos moya by overcoming spain s felix mantilla  6-4 3-6 7-6. czech fifth seed czech jiri novak was eliminated 7-5 6-1 by agustin calleri. the unseeded argentine  who won the tournament two years ago  now plays spain s albert montanes. montanes advanced to his first semi-final of the year with a 4-6 6-3 6-4 triumph over sixth-seeded italian filippo volandri. argentina s agustin calleri beat fourth seed jiri novak 7-5 6-1 in a battle of former champions at the mexican open. calleri won his only atp title in acapulco two years ago while novak won the singles and doubles titles in 1998. calleri will face albert montanes in the semi-finals after the spaniard ousted sixth seed filippo volandri of italy 4-6 6-3 6-4. argentine wild card mariano puerta continued his improbable run  outlasting felix mantilla 6-4 3-6 7-6.
film star fox behind theatre bid leading actor edward fox is one of the men behind plans to reopen a swansea theatre thought to be wales  oldest.  the star of film and tv hits day of the jackal and edward and mrs simpson has joined forces with swansea-born actor-director terry palmer. they will set up a charity to raise money to buy the palace theatre  and hope to reopen it to audiences in summer 2006. it is estimated that £500 000 is needed to buy the grade ii listed building. the palace theatre  which will be known as the pavilion repertory theatre  was sold to an undisclosed bidder at auction 13 months ago for £340 000. before that it had been used as a nightclub for 10 years.  oscar-winner sir anthony hopkins  who was born in nearby port talbot  made his professional debut there  and charlie chaplin and lily langtry have also trodden its boards. fox told the south wales evening post that after visiting the theatre he was surprised by its beauty.  a lot of money needs to be spent on it  but all the bones are there - it just needs a beautiful skin   he said.   to call it a jewel is not an over-estimation. there are not many theatres left like this.  the hope for the immediate future is that we can attract enough people to come forward to allow it to prosper   he told the newspaper.  fox first found fame in the 1960s. one of his most memorable roles was as an assassin in the day of the jackal in 1973  and he won a tv bafta as the prince of wales in 1980 for edward and mrs simpson. he was brought on board to save the theatre by mr palmer  a long-standing friend of 40 years.  two years ago i decided to return to swansea and do something for the city   said mr palmer. he said he was excited by the idea of running the palace as a charity where young actors could develop  and with an annual shakespeare festival in the summer.  if in five years  time the theatre can function in all areas without me  i shall be well satisfied having helped to create a vital living theatre for the city   he added. keith poulton  a business adviser from swansea  has already committed an undisclosed amount of money to the project.  we need at least £75 000 to secure a deposit on the building and we ve only got two months to do that   said mr poulton.  a few benefactors have expressed their interest and mr fox is going to give it an awful lot of time   he added. last year  roads around the theatre were cordoned off when masonry from its roof fell onto a car  but engineers said they were happy that it was safe.
lesotho textile workers lose jobs six foreign-owned textile factories have closed in lesotho  leaving 6 650 garment workers jobless  union officers told the ap news agency.  factory workers union secretary general billy macaefa blamed the closures on the end of worldwide textile quotas. the quotas for developing nations  ended on 1 january  gave them a set share of the rich countries  markets. they also limited the amount countries like china could export to the big markets of the united states and eu.   we understand that some (owners)... were complaining that the south african rand was strong against the us dollar  and they were losing when exporting textiles and clothing to the united states   mr macaefa said at a news briefing in the capital  maseru. lesotho s currency  the maloti  is fixed to the rand.  but we suspect that they left the country unceremoniously because of the end of quotas introduced by the world trade organization.  he said the six factories were leisure garments  modern garments  precious six garments  tw garments  lesotho hats and vogue landmark. the owners - two from taiwan  two from china  one from mauritius and one from malaysia - left over the december holiday period without informing or paying their employees  he said.  union leaders and trade campaigners have been warning that developing nations such as lesotho  sri lanka  and bangaldesh could lose thousands of jobs once the quotas were lifted. in the mountainous country surrounded by south africa  it is feared as many as 50 000 textile workers could lose their jobs  and mr mafeca said he expected more companies to leave. the assistance of a us law had given lesotho s textiles duty-free access to north american markets. the african growth and opportunity act (agoa)  gave sub-saharan countries preferential access to the us market for apparel and textile products as well as a wide range of other goods. a lesotho government news briefing is expected on wednesday.
telewest to challenge sky plus cable firm telewest is to offer a personal video recorder (pvr) in a set -top box to challenge sky plus.  sky plus is the market leader in the field of digital video recorders in the uk  with 474 000 subscribers. pvrs record tv programmes to a hard drive  letting viewers pause  and rewind live television and effectively  time shift  the viewing experience. a number of pvrs incorporating freeview digital terrestrial tv are also on the market but their success is limited. telewest s pvr will offer a 160gb hard drive  which has storage for up to 80 hours of programmes. the box has three tuners  which means viewers can record two channels simultaneously while watching a third channel.  sky plus boxes come in two versions - a 20gb version for £99 and a 160gb version for £399. sky also charges a £10 subscription fee to the service  unless viewers have a subscription to one of its premium packages. telewest has yet to reveal pricing for the new box or if it will be charging a subscription fee for the service.  eric tveter  president and chief operating officer at telewest broadband  said:  we will make our pvr set-top box available later this year  putting a stop to missed soaps  interrupted films and arguments over which programmes to record.  pvrs and recordable dvd players are set to replace video recorders as the standard method of recording and saving favourite tv programmes. last year  high street retailer dixons said it was going to stop selling vhs machines in favour of pvrs and recordable dvd machines. sky has said it aims to have 25% of its subscribers using sky plus by 2010 - it is predicting 10 million total subscribers by that date. it currently has 7.4 million subscribers  while telewest provides digital cable to 1.7 million customers.
pc ownership to  double by 2010  the number of personal computers worldwide is expected to double by 2010 to 1.3 billion machines  according to a report by analysts forrester research.  the growth will be driven by emerging markets such as china  russia and india  the report predicted. more than a third of all new pcs will be in these markets  with china adding 178 million new pcs by 2010  it said. low-priced computers made by local companies are expected to dominate in such territories  forrester said. the report comes less than a week after ibm  a pioneer of the pc business  sold its pc hardware division to china s number one computer maker lenovo.  the $1.75bn (£900m) deal will make the combined operation the third biggest pc vendor in the world.  today s products from western pc vendors won t dominate in those markets in the long term   simon yates  a senior analyst for forrester  said.  instead local pc makers like lenovo group in china and aquarius in russia that can better tailor the pc form factor  price point and applications to their local markets will ultimately win the market share battle   he said. there are currently 575 million pcs in use globally. the united states  europe and asia-pacific are expected to add 150 million new pcs by 2010  according to the study. the report forecast that there will be 80 million new pc users in india by 2010 and 40 million new users in indonesia.
concerns over windows atms cash machine networks could soon be more susceptible to computer viruses  a security firm has warned.  the warning is being issued because many banks are starting to use the windows operating system in machines. already there have been four incidents in which windows viruses have disrupted networks of cash machines running the microsoft operating system. but banking experts say the danger is being overplayed and that the risks of infection and disruption are small.  for many years the venerable ibm operating system  known as os/2  has been the staple software used to power many of the 1.4m cash machines in operation around the world. but ibm will end support for os/2 in 2006 which is forcing banks to look for alternatives. there are also other pressures making banks turn to windows said dominic hirsch  managing director of financial analysis firm retail banking research.  he said many cash machines will also have to be upgraded to make full use of the new europay  mastercard and visa credit cards that use computer chips instead of magnetic stripes to store data. us laws that demand disabled people get equal access to information will also force banks to make their cash machines more versatile and able to present information in different ways. todd thiemann  spokesman for anti-virus firm trend micro  said the move to windows in cash machines was not without risks. mr thiemann said research by the towergroup showed that 70% of new cash machines being installed were windows based.  already  he said  there have been four incidents in which cash machines have been unavailable for hours due to viruses affecting the network of the bank that owns them.  in january 2003 the slammer worm knocked out 13 000 cash machines of the bank of america and many of those operated by the canadian imperial bank of commerce. in august of the same year  cash machines of two un-named banks were put out of action for hours following an infection by the welchia worm. incidents like this happen  said mr thiemann  because when banks start using windows cash machines they also change the networking technology used to link the devices to their back office computers. this often means that all the cash machines and computers in a bank share the same data network.  this could mean that cash machines get caught up in the viruses that are going around because they have a common transmission system   he said.  banks need to consider protection as part of the investment to maintain the security of that network   mr thiemann told bbc news online.  but mr hirsch from retail banking research said the number of cash machines actually at risk was low because so few were upgraded every year.  currently  he said  a cash machine has a lifetime of up to 10 years which means that only about 10% of all atms get swapped for a newer model every year.  windows cash machines have been around for several years   he said.  most banks simply upgrade as part of their usual replacement cycle.   in theory there is a bigger threat with windows than os/2   he said   but i do not think that the banks are hugely concerned at the moment.   it s pretty unusual to hear about virus problems with atms   he said. the many different security systems built-in to cash machines meant there was no chance that a virus could cause them to start spitting out cash spontaneously  he said. banks were more likely to be worried about internal networks being overwhelmed by worms and viruses and customers not being able to get cash out at all  he added. a spokesman for the association of payment and clearing services (apacs) which represents the uk s payments industry said the risk from viruses was minimal.  there s no concern that there s going to be any type of virus hitting the uk networks   he said. risks of infection were small because the data networks that connect uk cash machines together and the operators of the atms themselves were a much smaller and tightly-knit community than in the us where viruses have struck.
tories urge  change at the top  tory delegates are gathering for what is expected to be their last conference before the general election  declaring britain needs  a change at the top .  the party goes into its spring forum trying to highlight what it sees as a clear choice between it and labour. tory co-chairman liam fox has opened proceedings with a speech criticising tony blair s record in government. labour s rule has been characterised by  lost trust and failure to deliver   he told the brighton conference. he also attacked the government s  failure  to control immigration and asylum and criticised its record on the nhs  telling delegates labour cannot be trusted on education or crime. a tory government would sort out the  shambles  of immigration  put patients before statistics and bring discipline to schools  he said. dr fox also underlined tory promises to cut tax by £4bn.  bbc political correspondent shaun ley says opinion polls suggest the tories still lag some way behind labour on the issues of health  education and the economy. conservative leader michael howard  who had been due to welcome delegates to the conference on friday  will address them in a lunchtime speech. his welcome address had to be postponed after he stayed in london to lead the party s opposition to the prevention of terrorism bill in its lengthy progress through parliament. the bill was finally passed on friday evening  after more than 30 hours of debate. mr howard is likely to defend his party s handling of the bill  which was only passed after the conservatives accepted prime minister tony blair s promise that mps would be able to review it within a year.
butler strikes gold in spain britain s kathy butler continued her impressive year with victory in sunday s 25th cross internacional de venta de banos in spain.  the scot  who led gb to world cross country bronze earlier this year  moved away from the field with ines monteiro halfway into the 6.6km race. she then shrugged off her portuguese rival to win in 20 minutes 38 seconds. meanwhile  briton karl keska battled bravely to finish seventh in the men s 10.6km race in a time of 31:41. kenenisa bekele of ethiopia - the reigning world long and short course champion - was never troubled by any of the opposition  winning leisurely in 30.26. butler said of her success:  i felt great throughout the race and hope this is a good beginning for a marvellous 2005 season for me.  elsewhere  abebe dinkessa of ethiopia won the brussels iaaf cross-country race on sunday  completing the 10 500m course in 33.22. gelete burka then crowned a great day for ethiopia by claiming victory in the women s race.
research fears over kelly s views scientists have expressed concerns that new education secretary ruth kelly s religious views could hamper vital scientific research.  ms kelly  who is catholic  is reported to be  pro-life  and has opposed embryo research. medical research council professor nancy rothwell said ms kelly s views mattered as she was responsible for training future scientists. the department for education and skills would not comment on the concerns.  a spokeswoman said:  it is not news that ms kelly is a catholic but we are not going into any details on this.  but she added that claims ms kelly was in charge of a £1bn university research budget were not true. it was down to the higher education funding council and the research councils to decide on universities  research allocations. british law is open to the cloning of human embryos to create stem cells  master cells that can develop into all the body s tissue types. this cloning activity is not permitted for reproductive purposes - only for research into new disease treatments. however  it is controversial because it involves the destruction of embryos.  professor rothwell  who is also vice-president of research at manchester university  told the times higher education supplement it would worry her  a great deal  if ministers were anti-stem cell. she said:  the views of ministers in the dfes do matter as they are responsible for training the next generation of scientists.  you can t have a higher education policy that is at odds with the government s science policy.  head of developmental genetics at the national institute of medical research  professor robin lovell-badge  said he had witnessed the confused situation in the us where many religious groups opposed the practice. he said:  if someone as senior as ruth kelly is not going to favour stem cell research we will end up with a similarly schizophrenic system in this country. it is very worrying.  but fertility expert lord winston said he thought it was  rather good  ministers held ethical views. concerns have also been raised by  pro-choice  organisations that ms kelly s views might affect sex education policy in schools.  family planning association chief executive  anne weyman  said teaching pupils about contraception and abortion were key.  young people must be informed about all the issues within sexual health  which include contraception and abortion.  i think it is very important that the government maintains its commitment to the teenage pregnancy strategy.  currently  individual schools devise their own sex education policies based on a framework provided by the dfes. ms kelly has not set out her detailed views on either issue yet  but has said she intends to put parents first in education policy. this would include the quality of teaching  classroom discipline and academic standards in schools  she said.
thomas out of six nations wales captain gareth thomas has been ruled out of the rest of the six nations with a broken thumb.  the full-back will have surgery on monday after fracturing his thumb in the 24-18 win over france on saturday. but welsh legend phil bennett insisted wales can cope without thomas as they chase a first grand slam in 27 years. bennett told bbc sport:  such is the spirit in the camp  they ll put kevin morgan at 15  rhys williams at wing and just carry on.  thomas will miss the match against scotland on 13 march  and what promises to be a huge encounter against the irish six days later. bennett added:  it s a setback. he s a great captain  he leads from the front and the boys love him.  thomas was replaced at half-time by williams as his side turned around a 15-6 deficit in paris.   with gareth missing i would think michael owen will be our captain   said wales coach mike ruddock.  he did a great job in the second half in france. he has been vice-captain all along throughout the championship.  wales travel to edinburgh to take on scotland in a fortnight and then host ireland in cardiff in the final round of matches in what could be the grand slam and championship decider. bennett  an inspirational fly-half for llanelli and wales in the 1970s  insisted the national team were entering a new golden period.  it was a great game and a magnificent result for wales   bennett told bbc radio five live s sportsweek programme.   the way this young team are blending  the glory days are on their way back.  we couldn t get possession early on and france dominated and scored two tries.  had they been ruthless  wales could have gone into the interval 30 points down. but they didn t take their chances.  wales defended fairly well but you cannot give that sort of quality ball to good sides.  the all blacks would have been ruthless and buried us in the first half. but the character we showed in the second half was quite outstanding.
box office blow for alexander director oliver stone s historical epic alexander has failed in its bid to conquer the box office  entering the us film charts at number six.  the swords and sandals blockbuster  rumoured to have cost more than $150m (£79m) to make  earned just $13.5 (£7m) over three days at the us box office. due to the thanksgiving holiday  the film opened on wednesday  bringing its total takings to $21.6m (£11.4m). top of the box office for a second week was action movie national treasure. the family adventure  starring nicolas cage  took $33.1m (£17.m)  ahead of animated comedy the incredibles - now in its fourth week in the charts - which took $24.1m (£12.7m).  last week oliver stone s film met with scathing reviews from us critics. the film stars irish actor colin farrell as one of history s most celebrated leaders - a relentless and arrogant warrior who conquered much of the known world by the age of 25. in particular  its portrayal of alexander as a bisexual has met with a hostile reception and the threat of legal action from greek lawyers.  though the battles have the blood-and-sinew bravado you expect from oliver stone  this three-hour buttnumbathon is hamstrung by a hectoring grandiosity   wrote one reviewer in rolling stone magazine. others poured scorn on farrell s bleached hair and angelina jolie s unwieldy accent  which variety called  a combination of mata hari and count dracula  . but novelist gore vidal defended the film  saying it was  barrier-breaking  for its frank depiction of bisexuality.  in sweden last thursday  to pick up a lifetime achievement award at the stockholm international film festival  stone expressed the hope that alexander might be better appreciated in europe.  one of the reasons i am being honoured here is europeans tend to see me a little differently than they do in the us   said the director behind jfk  platoon and born on the fourth of july. he added alexander  was not an easy movie  but then i ve never made easy movies .
t in the park sells out in days tickets for scotland s biggest music festival have sold out in record time  five months before the event is held.  the 12th annual t in the park festival  which takes place at balado near kinross in july  sold out just four days after the line-up was announced. green day  the foo fighters and keane are among the acts that had already been lined up to appear at the event. however  the organisers have revealed scots favourites travis as well as soulman james brown will also appear.  last year tickets sold out 10 weeks before the festival but organisers confirmed that all 130 000 for the two-day event had been sold. geoff ellis  ceo of festival organisers big day out ltd  said this year s event promises to be the best yet.  after last year s sell-out  we did think this year s event would sell slightly earlier  however this is way beyond our expectations   mr ellis said.   we are extremely proud that fans are so excited about t in the park that they have made absolutely sure that their place at balado is booked for 2005  and we will deliver one of the greatest events yet for them in july.  more than 120 acts will play on eight stages over the weekend of 9 and 10 july. brit award winners keane and the streets are among the main attractions  while the killers and dance act the prodigy are also on the bill. both green day and the foo fighters last played at the festival in 2002  the same year oasis and basement jaxx were among the headline acts.
santy worm makes unwelcome visit thousands of website bulletin boards have been defaced by a virus that used google to spread across the net.  the santy worm first appeared on 20 december and within 24 hours had successfully hit more than 40 000 websites. the malicious program exploits a vulnerability in the widely used phpbb software. santy s spread has now been stopped after google began blocking infected sites searching for new victims.  the worm replaces chat forums with a webpage announcing that the site had been defaced by the malicious program. soon after being infected  sites hit by the worm started randomly searching for other websites running the vulnerable phpbb software. once google started blocking these search queries the rate of infection tailed off sharply. a message sent to finnish security firm f-secure by google s security team said:  while a seven hour response for something like this is not outrageous  we think we can and should do better.   we will be reviewing our procedures to improve our response time in the future to similar problems   the google team said. security firms estimate that about 1m websites run their discussion groups and forums with the open source phpbb program. the worst of the attack now seems to be over as a search conducted on the morning of the 22 december produced only 1 440 hits for sites showing the text used in the defacement message. people using the sites hit by santy will not be affected by the worm. santy is not the first malicious program to use google to help it spread. in july a variant of the mydoom virus slowed down searches on google as the program flooded the search site with queries looking for new e-mail addresses to send itself to.
budget aston takes on porsche british car maker aston martin has gone head-to-head with porsche s 911 sports cars with the launch of its cheapest model yet.  with a price tag under £80 000  the v8 vantage is tens of thousands of pounds cheaper than existing aston models. the vantage is  the most important car in the history of our company   said aston s chief executive ulrich bez. aston - whose cars were famously used by james bond - will unveil the vantage at the geneva motor show on thursday. mr bez - himself a former executive at rival porsche - said the new car was the company s  most affordable car ever and makes the brand accessible . this in turn would make aston martin  globally visible  but still very  very exclusive   he added.  first shown as a concept car at the 2003 north american international auto show in detroit  the v8 vantage will be available in the uk in late summer. development costs for the vantage have been kept low by sharing a platform with aston s db9  which mr bez described as  the previous most important car for our company . there is currently an 18 months waiting list for the db9  mr bez said. the vantage will be built at the new aston factory in gaydon  near warwick  and should more than double aston s total output from about 2 000 presently.
making your office work for you our mission to brighten up your working lives continues - and this time  we re taking a long hard look at your offices.  over the next few months  our panel of experts will be listening to your gripes about where you work  and suggesting ways to make your workspace more efficient  more congenial or simply prettier. this week  we re hearing from marianne petersen  who is planning to convert a barn in sweden into a base for her freelance writing work. click on the link under her photograph to read her story  and then scroll down to see what the panel have to say. and if you want to take part in the series  go to the bottom of the story to find out how to get in touch.  working from home presents a multitude of challenges. understanding your work personality allows you to work in terms of your own style. do you feel confident about your work output without conferring with others  are you able to retain discipline and self motivate to get the job done  do you build on the ideas of others - or are you a more introspective problem solver . in order for a virtual office to succeed  keeping the boundary between work and home life is essential. it may be useful to be quite rigid about who is allowed to visit  and to keep strict office hours. referring to the space as work will give those around you a clear message that this is professional space. it is imperative to consider how to bring the outside world into yours  keeping up to date with developments and maintaining a network. isolated work environments mean this has to be carefully thought out  and a strategy has to be developed that suits both your personality and your industry. joining professional groups or forming a loose association of like-minded people may assist. it is useful to structure these meetings in advance as often they get relegated to less important status when times are busy - with the danger that when the workload eases  they have to be resurrected.    prior to any interior work being undertaken it is essential to ensure that the roof and walls are made water-and-weather-tight  and the structure is checked for stability. it appears that the roof trusses may need repairs and additional bracing.  ideally  the roof should be replaced with an outer material in keeping with the character and location of the barn. this would also allow for a well-insulated inner skin to be provided which should be light coloured. it is likely that the most efficient way of heating the building is with electricity. in order to provide this the owner will need to have an electrical engineer calculate the potential heating  power and lighting load to make sure the mains supply and distribution capacity are adequate. ideally  it would be good to have a mains water supply and some means of drainage for toilet and washing facilities. the walls should be dry lined with a single skin of plasterboard laid over rockwool slab which will allow good wall insulation and the power and lighting circuits to be concealed  and the walls should be painted in a light colour. the owner mentions she might lay a new floor over the existing planks; this will improve the insulation and offer a level surface. i would suggest laying new oak veneer planks which can work in with the character of the barn. as for lighting  consider a combination of floor mounted uplights  wall lights (wall washers) and selected downlights. use a combination of mains voltage fluorescent fittings and dimmable units which can vary the light levels and the feel of the interior.    please click on the link to the right here to see my ideas for marianne s barn.  the layout of this office reflects the need to have a working area and a more relaxed meeting space. large desk space and extensive storage would combine with tub chairs to maximise the space available. the finishes chosen for the furniture will need to reflect the unusual setting  while the lighting and temperature control mechanisms used will further influence the workplace.    regarding accessing the internet via the connection in the main house  your plan of going wireless is sensible. a wireless router/access point in the house with a wireless lan card in the pc in the renovated area may be sufficient. however  important points to consider are the distance between the two buildings and the nature of the materials through which the signals have to pass  which could result in a weak signal strength. you may require an additional wireless access point in the renovated area. your local it supplier will be able to advise on this. if you haven t already invested in robust firewall and anti-virus software  it is essential to do so  to protect your investment. to really take advantage of wireless technology  you might consider a laptop computer and a docking station with external mouse and monitor. or you could use one of the new tablet computers  which allow you to write directly on the screen and convert into text with built-in hand recognition software. and finally  you will save money and space by considering a multi-function product for print  scan  copy and fax.
da vinci film to star tom hanks actor tom hanks and director ron howard are reuniting for the da vinci code  an adaptation of the international best-selling novel by dan brown.  distributor sony pictures said production will begin next year  with a planned release in may 2006. hanks will play robert langdon  who is trying to solve the murder of a member of an ancient society that has protected dark secrets for centuries. it will be hanks  third collaboration with howard. they previously worked together  along with howard s producing partner brian grazer  on splash and apollo 13.  hanks is one of hollywood s most bankable stars  with his presence in a movie almost guaranteeing box office success. brown s book has become a publishing phenomenon  consistently topping book charts in the uk and us. it has sold more than eight million copies worldwide in little over two years. it is a classic whodunit  which centres on a global conspiracy surrounding the holy grail mythology and places heavy emphasis on symbols and cryptography. its protagonist is a harvard professor likened to a contemporary indiana jones  who also appeared in brown s first book angels and demons. the tale mixes art history with mythology  semiotics with medieval history.
gritty return for prince of persia still basking in the relatively recent glory of last year s sands of time  the dashing prince of persia is back in warrior within  and in a more bellicose mood than last time.  this sequel gives the franchise a grim  gritty new look and ramps up the action and violence. as before  you control the super-athletic prince from a third-person perspective. the time-travelling plot hinges on the dahaka  an all-consuming monster pursuing our hero through the ages. the only way to dispel it is to turn back the clock again and kill the sultry empress of time before she ever creates the sands of time that caused the great beast s creation.  studiously structured though this back story is  everything boils down to old-fashioned fantasy gameplay which proves  on the whole  as dependable as it needs to be. ever since the series  then-groundbreaking beginnings on the commodore amiga  prince of persia has always been about meticulously-animated acrobatic moves  that provide an energetic blend of leaping preposterously between pieces of scenery and lopping off enemies  body parts.  those flashy moves are back in full evidence  and tremendous fun to perform and perfect. combining them at speed is the best fun  although getting a handle of doing so takes practice and plenty of skill. until you reach that point  it is a haphazard business. all too often  you will perform a stunning triple somersault  pirouette off a wall  knock out three enemies in one glorious swoop  before plummeting purposefully over a cliff to your doom. that in turn can mean getting set back an annoyingly long distance  for you can only save at the fountains dotted along the path. the expected fiendish puzzles are all present and correct  but combat is what is really been stepped up  and there is more of it than before. the game s developers have combined acrobatic flair with gruesome slaying techniques in some wonderfully imaginative ways. slicing foes down the middle is one particularly entertaining method of seeing them off.  warrior within is a very slick package; the game s intro movie is so phenomenally good that it actually does an ultimate disservice once the game itself commences.  it is on a par with the jaw-dropping opening sequence of onimusha 3 earlier this year  and when the game begins  it is something of an anti-climax. that said  the graphics are excellent  and indeed among the most striking and satisfying elements of the game. the music is probably the worst aspect - a merit-free heavy metal soundtrack that you will swiftly want to turn off. there is something strangely unsatisfying about the game. perhaps precisely because its graphics and mechanics are so good that the story and overall experience are not quite as engaging as they should be. somehow it adds up to less than the sum of its parts  and is more technically impressive than it is outright enjoyable. but that is not to say warrior within is anything other than a superb adventure that most will thoroughly enjoy. it just does not quite take the character to the new heights that might have been hoped for.
poll idols  face first hurdles vote for me - itv1 s pop idol style talent contest for would-be politicians - finally hits our screens this week.  over the next four days  hundreds of potential candidates will be whittled down by a panel of experts and public vote. the winner will then be encouraged to stand as an independent at the next general election  which is expected in the spring. but opinion is divided on whether any of the potential candidates unearthed so far have got what it takes to make it in politics.  any of them would make competent mps   former independent mp martin bell insisted on bbc radio 4 s today programme.  mr bell  who will be offering his advice to the contestants on wednesday  argues that westminster has its share of  odd balls  and the show will engage ordinary voters.  if it gets more people voting and more people interested in politics there is no harm in that   he said. but sir bernard ingham  margaret thatcher s former press secretary  took a less charitable view  accusing the programme of  corrupting politics .  he said the producers would not achieve their aim of re-engaging voters  with that bunch of nutters . to give sir bernard his dues  monday evening s opening episode did attract more than a smattering of eccentrics and self-publicists. among those chancing their arm were a druid priest and a former porn star  who insisted on removing her top to make her point about the legalisation of brothels. among the more eccentric policy proposals was a public holiday on bruce forsyth s birthday and bill oddie for prime minister. the show follows the time-honoured pop idol format  with queues of nervous hopefuls and a panel of three experts judging their performance.  the contestants were given 60 seconds to present their manifestos. then the final 25 were tested on their lobbying ability. they were then cross-examined by the panel  which was chaired by ex-itn political editor john sergeant  with television host lorraine kelly taking the nicki chapman role. but the real star of the show is kelvin mackenzie  in the simon cowell  mr nasty seat.  the former sun editor dispensed a stream of well-crafted insults and one-liners. his advice for one young contestant was to  get a haircut and a brain transplant . wheelchair user kevin donnellon was asked:  why on earth do you want our elected representatives to be disabled    don t you care about the inuit    implored guitar-toting environmental campaigner barry lim.  i don t care about them. i care about myself and when the sun s shining i think - fantastic   replied mr mackenzie.  mr lim later reduced the panel to fits of giggles as he outlined his plan to make people do community service instead of paying taxes.  when the prime minister turns to the chancellor and says how much have we got in the coffers mr brown  he says well  prime minister  bad news  all the houses in britain have been painted but actually nobody has paid any tax   observed mr mackenzie.  that was an total disaster. i just couldn t seem to think of things to say   a crestfallen mr lim confided in the show s presenter  jonathan maitland. irfan hanif  a 25-year-old doctor from bolton  made a good impression  even if he was a little thrown by mr mackenzie s suggestion that instead of being treated by the nhs  young drunks should  given a good beating  and left to die. dominic carman - son of late libel lawyer george carman - was voted through to the final 25  on a platform of cutting defence spending to boost education. opinion was more divided over rodney hylton-potts  a 59-year-old convicted fraudster. mr mackenzie thought the smooth-talking former solicitor - with a hardline on crime and immigration - deserved a chance to progress.  he could join the rest of the crooks in the houses of parliament.  but ms kelly said she  would not trust him as far as she could throw him . the series continues throughout the week  with the public given the chance to evict one prospective mp every night. itv will not fund the election campaign for the eventual winner  but the publicity could give the winner a flying start over other candidates.
ask jeeves tips online ad revival ask jeeves has become the third leading online search firm this week to thank a revival in internet advertising for improving fortunes.  the firm s revenue nearly tripled in the fourth quarter of 2004  exceeding $86m (£46m). ask jeeves  once among the best-known names on the web  is now a relatively modest player. its $17m profit for the quarter was dwarfed by the $204m announced by rival google earlier in the week. during the same quarter  yahoo earned $187m  again tipping a resurgence in online advertising.  the trend has taken hold relatively quickly. late last year  marketing company doubleclick  one of the leading providers of online advertising  warned that some or all of its business would have to be put up for sale. but on thursday  it announced that a sharp turnaround had brought about an unexpected increase in profits. neither ask jeeves nor doubleclick thrilled investors with their profit news  however. in both cases  their shares fell by some 4%. analysts attributed the falls to excessive expectations in some quarters  fuelled by the dramatic outperformance of google on tuesday.
camera phones are  must-haves  four times more mobiles with cameras in them will be sold in europe by the end of 2004 than last year  says a report from analysts gartner.  globally  the number sold will reach 159 million  an increase of 104%. the report predicts that nearly 70% of all mobile phones sold will have a built-in camera by 2008. improving imaging technology in mobiles is making them an increasingly  must-have  buy. in europe  cameras on mobiles can take 1.3 megapixel images. but in japan and asia pacific  where camera phone technology is much more advanced  mobiles have already been released which can take 3.2 megapixel images. japan still dominates mobile phone technology  and the uptake there is huge. by 2008  according to gartner  95% of all mobiles sold there will have cameras on them.  camera phones had some teething problems when they were first launched as people struggled with poor quality images and uses for them  as well as the complexity and expense of sending them via mms (multimedia messaging services). this has changed in the last 18 months. handset makers have concentrated on trying to make phones easier to use. realising that people like to use their camera phones in different ways  they have introduced more design features  like rotating screens and viewfinders  removable memory cards and easier controls to send picture messages.  mobile companies have introduced more ways for people to share photos with other people. these have included giving people easier ways to publish them on websites  or mobile blogs - moblogs. but the report suggests that until image quality increases more  people will not be interested in printing out pictures at kiosks. image sensor technology inside cameras phones is improving. the gartner report suggests that by mid-2005  it is likely that the image resolution of most camera phones will be more than two megapixels. consumer digital cameras images range from two to four megapixels in quality  and up to six megapixels on a high-end camera. but a lot of work is being done to make camera phones more like digital cameras. some handsets already feature limited zoom capability  and manufacturers are looking into technological improvements that will let people take more photos in poorly-lit conditions  like nightclubs. other developments include wide-angle modes  basic editing features  and better sensors and processors for recording film clips.  images from camera phones have even made it into the art world. an exhibition next month in aid of the charity mencap  will feature snaps taken from the camera phones of top artists.  the exhibition  fonetography  will feature images taken by photographers david bailey  rankin and nan goldin  and artists sir peter blake  tracey emin and jack vettriano. but some uses for them have worried many organisations. intel  samsung  the uk s foreign office and lawrence livermore national laboratories in the us  have decided to ban camera phones from their buildings for fear of sensitive information being snapped and leaked. many schools  fitness centres and local councils have also banned them over fears about privacy and misuse. italy s information commissioner has also voiced concern and has issued guidelines on where and how the phones can be used. but camera phone fears have not dampened the manufacturers  profits. according to recent figures  sony ericsson s profits tripled in the third-quarter because of new camera phones. over 60% of mobiles sold during the three months through to september featured integrated cameras  it said.
us tv cuts nudity from bbc film a us tv network is editing bbc films  dirty war to avoid showing the front of a nude woman being scrubbed down after a fictional chemical attack.  it is not worth showing  non-essential  nude scenes when indecency complaints are  aggressively pursued  by us tv watchdogs  said pbs  jacoba atlas. dirty war - screened uncut on bbc one last september - depicts a dirty bomb attack on the city of london. it is also being screened uncut on us cable channel hbo on 24 january. pbs said it will use extra footage for its broadcast  showing the woman  from a more discreet angle  instead.  the us federal communications commission fined cbs $550 000 (£306 814) last autumn for singer janet jackson s  wardrobe malfunction   during which her breast was exposed during a dance routine with justin timberlake. many us networks and broadcasters are now more nervous about airing nudity  violence or bad language. ms atlas said pbs could put itself financially at risk if it showed the uncut version of dirty war  and it could also deter many of its 170 individual stations from airing  an important film .  you want to pick your battles   she said. she added that pbs  which is a private  non-profit media enterprise owned and operated by the nation s 349 public television stations  is bolder about screening non-fiction or historical programming. pbs is seen in virtually all us homes with tv  and describes itself as a  trusted community resource  serving nearly 100 million people each week.
microsoft seeking spyware trojan microsoft is investigating a trojan program that attempts to switch off the firm s anti-spyware software.  the spyware tool was only released by microsoft in the last few weeks and has been downloaded by six million people. stephen toulouse  a security manager at microsoft  said the malicious program was called bankash-a trojan and was being sent as an e-mail attachment. microsoft said it did not believe the program was widespread and recommended users to use an anti-virus program. the program attempts to disable or delete microsoft s anti-spyware tool and suppress warning messages given to users.  it may also try to steal online banking passwords or other personal information by tracking users  keystrokes.  microsoft said in a statement it is investigating what it called a criminal attack on its software. earlier this week  microsoft said it would buy anti-virus software maker sybari software to improve its security in its windows and e-mail software. microsoft has said it plans to offer its own paid-for anti-virus software but it has not yet set a date for its release. the anti-spyware program being targeted is currently only in beta form and aims to help users find and remove spyware - programs which monitor internet use  causes advert pop-ups and slow a pc s performance.
us trade gap ballooned in october the us trade deficit widened by more than expected in october  hitting record levels after higher oil prices raised import costs  figures have shown  the trade shortfall was $55.5bn (£29bn)  up 9% from september  the commerce department said. that pushed the 10 month deficit to $500.5bn. imports rose by 3.4%  while exports increased by only 0.6%. a weaker dollar also increased the cost of imports  though this should help drive export demand in coming months.  things are getting worse  but that s to be expected   said david wyss of standard & poor s in new york.  the first thing is that when the dollar goes down  it increases the price of imports.  we are seeing improved export orders. things seem to be going in the right direction.   despite this optimism  significant concerns remain as to how the us will fund its trade and budget deficits should they continue to widen. another problem highlighted by analysts was the growing trade gap with china  which has been accused of keeping its currency artificially weak in order to boost exports. the us imported almost $20bn worth of goods from china during october  exporting a little under $3bn.  it seems the key worry that has existed in the currency market still remains   said anthony crescenzi  a bond strategist at miller tabak in new york. the trade deficit and the shortfall with china  are big issues going forward . the commerce department figures caused the dollar to weaken further despite widespread expectations that the federal reserve will raise interest rates for a fifth time this year. borrowing costs are tipped to rise by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.25% at a fed meeting later on tuesday.
durex maker ssl awaits firm bid uk condom maker ssl international has refused to comment on reports it may be subject to a takeover early in 2005.  a financial times report said business intelligence firm gpw was understood to be starting due diligence work on ssl international  for a corporate client. an spokesman for ssl  which makes the famous durex brand of condom  would not to comment on  market speculation . however the news sent shares in ssl  which also makes scholl footwear  up more than 6%  or 16.75 pence to 293.5p.  the ft said most the high-profile firm that might woo ssl was anglo-dutch household products group reckitt benckiser. eighteen months ago reckitt benckiser was at the centre of a rumoured takeover bid for ssl - but that came to nothing. other firms that have been seen as would-be suitors include kimberly-clark  johnson & johnson  and private equity investors. analysts have seen ssl as a takeover target for years. it sold off its surgical gloves and antiseptics businesses for £173m to a management team in may. ssl was formed by a three-way merger between seton healthcare  footwear specialists scholl and condom-maker london international group. its other brands include syndol analgesic  meltus cough medicine  sauber compression hosiery and deodorant products  and mister baby.
top tories on lib dem  hit list  the liberal democrats are aiming to unseat a string of top tories - including leader michael howard - at the next general election.  mr howard s seat is at the top of the liberal democrats  list. others targeted include oliver letwin  david davis and theresa may  lib dem s elections chief lord rennard said. he said it was  nothing personal  but that  very many of the prominent conservatives  had slender leads in seats where the lib dems were second.  in 2001  michael howard won the folkestone & hythe seat with 20 645 votes  compared to 14 738 for the liberal democrat candidate peter carroll  giving the tory leader a majority of 5 907. asked if this amounted to the party s much vaunted  decapitation strategy  lord rennard said it was not a term he had ever used. but he urged labour supporters to vote tactically to remove prominent conservatives.  i just don t think labour voters in these sort of seats could resist the temptation to use their votes effectively to remove a conservative.  he denied this strategy was opportunism  insisting the lib dem s policies on issues such as tuition fees  the council tax and free care for the elderly appealed  to all sides of the political spectrum .  we are in favour of tactical voting as long as the tactic is to vote liberal democrat   he added. a conservative spokesperson said:  the liberal democrats can talk all they like about strategy. the problem the liberal democrats face is that a large number of lib dem voters do not agree with their policies.  we will be pointing out how they are soft on crime  how they support higher taxes  their opposition to controlled immigration and support for giving europe more control over our lives .
housewives lift channel 4 ratings the debut of us television hit desperate housewives has helped lift channel 4 s january audience share by 12% compared to last year.  other successes such as celebrity big brother and the simpsons have enabled the broadcaster to surpass bbc two for the first month since last july. bbc two s share of the audience fell from 11.2% to 9.6% last month in comparison with january 2004. celebrity big brother attracted fewer viewers than its 2002 series.  comedy drama desperate housewives managed to pull in five million viewers at one point during its run to date  attracting a quarter of the television audience. the two main television channels  bbc1 and itv1  have both seen their monthly audience share decline in a year on year comparison for january  while five s proportion remained the same at a slender 6.3%. digital multi-channel tv is continuing to be the strongest area of growth  with the bbc reporting freeview box ownership of five million  including one million sales in the last portion of 2004. its share of the audience soared by 20% in january 2005 compared with last year  and currently stands at an average of 28.6%.
lloyd s of london head chides fsa the head of lloyd s of london  the insurance market  has criticised britain s financial watchdog  the financial services authority (fsa).  in a speech on monday  mr prettejohn urged the fsa to force brokers to disclose the size of their commissions.  the fsa should change  and change now  said mr prettejohn  who wants it to move from  disclosure on request  to mandatory disclosure. the call came in a speech on improving the london insurance market.   the fsa should not bide their time and  wait and see . they should seize the moment   mr prettejohn  lloyd s chief executive said. the fsa took over regulation of the general insurance sector in january  but it sidestepped calls to require brokers to disclose the commissions they earn from insurers to their clients. last week  the city watchdog gave brokers and insurers guidance on managing conflicts of interest. brokers must give information on their commissions if  and only if  their customers request it  the fsa said.  in the us  lack of transparency about brokers  commissions has led to problems. the world s biggest insurance broker marsh & mclennan said last week it would pay $850m to settle charges  raised by new york attorney general eliot spitzer in october  that it sought to rig bids in conjunction with insurers. the probe centred around so-called contingent commissions  whereby brokers were rewarded according to how much business they brought to an insurer  an arrangement that did not always benefit brokers  customers. all of the insurance business written in the lloyd s market is placed via brokers.
games help you  learn and play   god games  in which players must control virtual people and societies could be educational  says research.  a us researcher has suggested that games such as the sims could be a good way to teach languages. ravi purushotma believes that the world of the sims can do a better job of teaching vocabulary and grammar than traditional methods. the inherent fun of game playing could help to make learning languages much less of a chore  said mr purushotma.  there must be few parents or teachers that do not worry that the lure of a video game on a computer or console is hard to resist by children that really should be doing their homework. but instead of fearing computer games  ravi purushotma believes that educationalists  particularly language teachers should embrace games.  one goal would be to break what i believe to be the false assumption that learning and play are inherently oppositional   he said. he believes that the  phenomenal ability  of games such as the sims and others to capture the interest of adolescent audiences is ripe for exploitation. the hard part of learning any language  said mr purushotma  were the basic parts of learning what different words refer to and how they are used to build up sentences. boring lessons drumming vocabulary into pupils couched in terms they do not understand has made many languages far harder to learn than they should be.  the way we often teach foreign languages right now is somewhat akin to learning to ride a bike by formally studying gravity   he said.  by contrast  said mr purushotma  learning via something like the sims may mean students do not feel like they are studying at all. this was because the sims does not rely solely on words to get information across to players. instead the actions of its computer controlled people and how they interact with their world often makes clear what is going on. the incidental information about what a sim was doing could reinforce what a player or student was supposed to be learning  said mr purushotma. by contrast many language lessons try to impart information about a tongue with little context. for instance  he said  in a version of the sims adapted to teach german  if a player misunderstood what was meant by the word  energie  the actions of a tired sim  stumbling then falling asleep  would illustrate the meaning. if necessary detailed textual information could be called upon to aid players  or students  understanding.  one of the drawbacks of the sims  said mr purushotma  was the lack of spoken language to help people brush up on pronunciation. however  online versions of the sims  in which people have to move in  meet the neighbours and get to know the local town  could be adapted to help this. although not wishing to claim that he is the first to suggest using a game can help people learn  mr purushotma believes that educationalists have missed the potential they have to help.  getting a simulated person to perform everyday activities in a make-believe world and having them described in a foreign language could be a powerful learning aid  he believes. before now  he said  educational software titles suffer by comparison with the slick graphics and rich worlds found in games. but  he said  using pre-prepared game worlds such as the sims has never been easier because tools have been made by its creators and fans that make it easy to modify almost any part of the game. this could make it easy for teachers to adapt parts of the game for their own lessons.  i m hoping now to re-create a well-polished german learning mod for the sequel by this summer   he told the bbc news website.  i m encouraged to hear that others are thinking of experimenting with japanese and spanish.  earlier work with a colleague on using civilisation iii to teach students about history showed that it could be a powerful way to get them to realise that solving a society s problems can not always come from making a single change. a report on the experiment said:  students began asking historical and geographical questions in the context of game play  using geography and history as tools for their game  and drawing inferences about social phenomena based on their play.  mr purushotma s ideas were aired in an article for the journal language learning and technology.
minister digs in over doping row the belgian sports minister at the centre of the svetlana kuznetsova doping row says he will not apologise for making allegations against her.  claude eerdekens claims the us open champion tested positive for ephedrine at an exhibition event last month. criticised for making the announcement  he said:  i will never apologise. this product is banned and it s up to her to explain why it s there.  kuznetsova says the stimulant may have been in a cold remedy she took. the russian said she did nothing wrong by taking the medicine during the event. the women s tennis association cleared kuznetsova of any offence because the drug is not banned when taken out of competition.  eerdekens said he made the statement in order to protect the other three players that took part in the tournament  belgian justine henin-hardenne  nathalie dechy of france and russia s elena dementieva. but dechy is fuming that she has been implicated in the row.  how can you be happy when you see your face on the cover page and talking about doping   dechy said.  i m really upset about it and i think the belgian government did a really bad job about this.  i think we deserve an apology from the guy. you cannot say anything like this - you cannot say some stuff like this  saying it s one of these girls. this is terrible.  dementieva is also angry and says that dechy and herself are the real victims of the scandal.  you have no idea what i have been through all these days. it s been too hard on me   she said.  the wta are trying to handle this problem by saying there are three victims  but i see only two victims in this story - me and nathalie dechy  who really have nothing to do with this.  to be honest with you  i don t feel like i want to talk to sveta at all. i m just very upset with the way everything has happened.
parmalat founder offers apology the founder and former boss of parmalat has apologised to investors who lost money as a result of the italian dairy firm s collapse.  calisto tanzi said he would co-operate fully with prosecutors investigating the background to one of europe s largest financial scandals. parmalat was placed into bankruptcy protection in 2003 after a 14bn euro black hole was found in its accounts. more than 130 000 people lost money following the firm s collapse. mr tanzi  66  issued a statement through his lawyer after five hours of questioning by prosecutors in parma on 15 january.  prosecutors are seeking indictments against mr tanzi and 28 others - including several members of his family and former parmalat chief financial officer fausto tonna - for alleged manipulation of stock market prices and making misleading statements to accountants and italy s financial watchdog. two former parmalat auditors will stand trial later this month for their role in the firm s collapse.   i apologise to all who have suffered so much damage as a result of my schemes to make my dream of an industrial project come true   mr tanzi s statement said.  it is my duty to collaborate fully with prosecutors to reconstruct the causes of parmalat s sudden default and who is responsible.  mr tanzi spent several months in jail in the wake of parmalat s collapse and was kept under house arrest until last september. parmalat is now being run by a state appointed administrator  enrico bondi  who has launched lawsuits against 80 banks in an effort to recover money for the bankrupt company and its shareholders. he has alleged that these companies were aware of the true state of parmalat s finances but continued to lend money to the company. the companies insist they were the victims of fraudulent book-keeping. parmalat was declared insolvent after it emerged that 4 billion euros (£2.8bn; $4.8bn) it supposedly held in an offshore account did not in fact exist. the firm s demise sent shock waves through italy  where its portfolio of top-selling food brands and its position as the owner of leading football club parma had turned it into a household name.
us state acts to stop  spammers  us state texas has filed a lawsuit against two men believed to be among the world s top five spammers.  it is seeking millions of dollars in damages in a civil lawsuit filed earlier this week. the texas attorney general said it started the legal action as messages sent by the alleged spammers broke three laws governing e-mail marketing. the company named in the lawsuit denied any wrongdoing and said it complied with all relevant laws.  the texas lawsuit was filed against ryan samuel pitylak  a university oftexas student  and mark stephen trotter of california. both are thought to be the top executives in three companies - payperaction llc.  leadplex llc. and leadplex inc - that are suspected of sending out many millions of unwanted e-mail messages.  illegal spam must be stopped   said greg abbott  texas attorney general announcing the legal action.  spam is one of the most aggravating and pervasive problems facing consumers today.  the attorney general alleges that messages sent by mr pitylak and mr trotter s companies broke the 2003 controlling the assault of non-solicited pornography and marketing act (can-spam) as well as the texas electronic mail and solicitation act and texas deceptive trade practices act. all three acts confer cash penalties for each violation of their terms. if the men are found guilty and all penalties are applied  the two men could face a damages bill running into millions. mr abbott said the messages sent by the pair broke laws by using misleading subject lines  not identifying themselves as adverts and offering services for which they had no licence to do so in texas. lawyers for the alleged spammers said the lawsuit was groundless and the two men would defend themselves strongly against the accusations.  leadplex and payperaction are legitimate internet marketing companies that are in complete compliance with the federal can-spam act   said lin hughes  speaking on behalf of mr pitylak and mr trotter. in a similar move the us federal trade commission (ftc) has won a court order that stops an international group of spammers sending sexually explicit e-mail. the ftc took the action because the messages being sent violated several parts of the can-spam act. in particular  the pornographic messages did not identify themselves as being sexually explicit  had deceptive subject headings  did not have working opt-out mechanisms  failed to mention they were adverts and did not give the sender s real world address. the court order stops the spammers sending e-mail and freezes assets prior to a hearing on a permanent injunction.
ronaldo considering new contract manchester united winger cristiano ronaldo said he is close to agreeing to a new contract at old trafford.  the portugal star  who joined in august 2003 on a five-year-deal  is a regular in the united first-team.  the united board have already made an offer to renew the contract but i m trying not to think about it   he told the news of the world.  my agent has spoken with the club and it will be resolved soon. i think we ll reach a good agreement for both sides.  ronaldo refused to commit his long-term future to the club.   nobody knows what will come tomorrow. i like being here  but who knows   he added.  there aren t many bigger and better clubs than this one. it s my ambition to be at a big club. i m happy but nobody knows the future.
camera phones are  must-haves  four times more mobiles with cameras in them will be sold in europe by the end of 2004 than last year  says a report from analysts gartner.  globally  the number sold will reach 159 million  an increase of 104%. the report predicts that nearly 70% of all mobile phones sold will have a built-in camera by 2008. improving imaging technology in mobiles is making them an increasingly  must-have  buy. in europe  cameras on mobiles can take 1.3 megapixel images. but in japan and asia pacific  where camera phone technology is much more advanced  mobiles have already been released which can take 3.2 megapixel images. japan still dominates mobile phone technology  and the uptake there is huge. by 2008  according to gartner  95% of all mobiles sold there will have cameras on them.  camera phones had some teething problems when they were first launched as people struggled with poor quality images and uses for them  as well as the complexity and expense of sending them via mms (multimedia messaging services). this has changed in the last 18 months. handset makers have concentrated on trying to make phones easier to use. realising that people like to use their camera phones in different ways  they have introduced more design features  like rotating screens and viewfinders  removable memory cards and easier controls to send picture messages.  mobile companies have introduced more ways for people to share photos with other people. these have included giving people easier ways to publish them on websites  or mobile blogs - moblogs. but the report suggests that until image quality increases more  people will not be interested in printing out pictures at kiosks. image sensor technology inside cameras phones is improving. the gartner report suggests that by mid-2005  it is likely that the image resolution of most camera phones will be more than two megapixels. consumer digital cameras images range from two to four megapixels in quality  and up to six megapixels on a high-end camera. but a lot of work is being done to make camera phones more like digital cameras. some handsets already feature limited zoom capability  and manufacturers are looking into technological improvements that will let people take more photos in poorly-lit conditions  like nightclubs. other developments include wide-angle modes  basic editing features  and better sensors and processors for recording film clips.  images from camera phones have even made it into the art world. an exhibition next month in aid of the charity mencap  will feature snaps taken from the camera phones of top artists.  the exhibition  fonetography  will feature images taken by photographers david bailey  rankin and nan goldin  and artists sir peter blake  tracey emin and jack vettriano. but some uses for them have worried many organisations. intel  samsung  the uk s foreign office and lawrence livermore national laboratories in the us  have decided to ban camera phones from their buildings for fear of sensitive information being snapped and leaked. many schools  fitness centres and local councils have also banned them over fears about privacy and misuse. italy s information commissioner has also voiced concern and has issued guidelines on where and how the phones can be used. but camera phone fears have not dampened the manufacturers  profits. according to recent figures  sony ericsson s profits tripled in the third-quarter because of new camera phones. over 60% of mobiles sold during the three months through to september featured integrated cameras  it said.
llewellyn plans wales retirement wales record cap holder gareth llewellyn will retire from test rugby at the end of the six nations.  the veteran lock  who is 36 at the end of february  told bbc wales scrum v that it is time for him to bring down the curtain on his 92-cap wales career. llewellyn is on a one-season deal with french club side narbonne  but said he may consider retiring from all rugby.  i don t know what i ll do next year  whether to carry on playing or make a change in my career   llewellyn said.  narbonne are really keen for me to stay on for next year  so i ve got to decide whether to stay on there or maybe go somewhere else  but ultimitely coaching is where i d like to end up.  i ve done all the coaching awards and everything you can do in that respect  so it s just hopefully getting a chance somewhere.  fellow locks robert sidoli and brent cockbain  who both scored tries in saturday s six nations win in italy  are wales coach mike ruddock s preferred starters in the second row.  with the resurgence of the dragons  ian gough and the adaptibility of lock-cum-flanker jon thomas on the bench  llewellyn has not yet made a match-day squad this six nations campaign. but the former neath and ospreys player is still targetting one last outing in the red shirt.  if i do get on the field then brilliant  although the boys are doing really well and i m very pleased for them   llewellyn added.  we ve had some really tough years in wales and the players have been through a hell of a lot.  sometimes the easiest thing would have been to throw the towel in and walk away  but a few of us dug in there and it s really nice to see some of the boys getting the rewards now.  i was going to retire at the end of the last six nations  i d even told some of the boys in the squad about it.  but mike (ruddock) asked me to carry on for another season  which i ve done  still part of the squad  still trying to help them out as much as i can.  llewellyn made his wales debut in 1989 against new zealand as a 20-year-old  having caught the selectors  eyes in the all blacks  tour match against neath. the 6ft 6in player has not looked back since  going on to break neil jenkins  wales cap record on 12 june 2004 in the 50-44 loss in argentina.   there s been lots of highs - winning the six nations in  94  beating england in  93  i ve been on some great tours and seen some fantastic countries   llewellyn said.  but i think the best thing of all for me was the time i spent with the players  i ve met some great guys in rugby and made some great friends.  it ll be a bit strange on international days having to find somewhere to watch wales play  but at least i might have time to get my golf handicap down!  llewellyn captained neath for seven seasons  while being an integral part of the neath-swansea ospreys regional side s first season. but with the ospreys building for the future  llewellyn was eventually forced to look to france for employment - digging in his heels during contract negotiations to insist he must be allowed to play for wales.
standard life cuts policy bonuses standard life  europe s largest mutual life insurer  has cut bonuses for with-profit policyholders.  annual bonus rates on its with-profits life policies were cut from 2.5% to 2%  while bonuses on pension policies were reduced from 3.25% to 2.5%. it is the sixth time in three years standard life has made cuts to bonus rates  despite an 8.7% rise in the value of the with-profits fund in 2004. the insurer blamed the cuts on poor share returns and low interest rates.  with-profits policies are designed to smooth out the peaks and troughs of stock market volatility. profits made in good years are kept in reserve to pay investors an annual bonus even when the stock market performs badly. slumping share prices throughout 2001 and 2002 forced most firms to trim bonus rates on their policies. standard life came in for criticism for sticking with stock market investments during 2001 and 2002. the insurer argued that shares outperformed other investments over the long term and that policyholders would feel the benefit when the stock market recovered. recently  norwich union and axa sun life both cut their with-profit bonus rates.  john gill  managing director of the insurer s life and pensions division  said that a strong stock market recovery in the past two years had only  partly compensated for losses during 2001 and 2002 . in addition  low interest rates meant that  long-term investment returns are well below historic levels   mr gill added. however  mr gill maintained that with-profits continued to perform well over the long term.  our payouts continue to stand up well against other types of long-term investments over similar periods   he said. standard life has an estimated 2.4 million with-profits policyholders. last year  the company announced that it was looking to float on the stock market in 2006.
honda wins china copyright ruling japan s honda has won a copyright case in beijing  further evidence that china is taking a tougher line on protecting intellectual property rights.  a court ruled that chongqing lifan industry group must stop selling honda brand motorbikes and said it must pay 1.47m yuan ($177 600) in compensation. internationally recognized regulation is now a key part of china s plans for developing its economy  analysts said. beijing also has been threatened with sanctions if it fails to clamp down.  chinese firms copy products ranging from computer software and spark plugs to baby milk and compact discs. despite the fact that product piracy is a major problem  foreign companies have only occasionally won cases and the compensation awarded has usually been small. still  recent rulings and announcements will have boosted optimism that attitudes are changing. earlier this week china said that in future it will punish violators of intellectual property rights with up to seven years in jail. and on tuesday  paws incorporated - the owner of the rights to garfield the cat - won a court battle against a publishing house that violated its copyright. other firms that have taken legal action in china  with varying degrees of success  include yamaha  general motors and toyota.  the problem of piracy is not limited to china  however  and the potential for profit is huge. the european union estimates that the global trade in pirated wares is worth more than 200bn euros a year (£140bn; $258bn)  or about 5% of total world trade. and it is growing. between 1998 and 2002  the number of counterfeit or pirated goods intercepted at the eu s external borders increased by more than 800%  it said. last month the eu said it will start monitoring china  ukraine and russia to ensure they are going after pirated goods. other countries on the eu s hit list include thailand  brazil  south korea and indonesia. any countries that are not making enough of an effort could be dragged to the world trade organisation (wto)  a step that could trigger economic sanctions  the eu warned.
ajax refuse to rule out jol move ajax have refused to reveal whether tottenham s boss martin jol is on the dutch champions  shortlist to become the amsterdam club s new coach.  jol  who has coached in his native holland  has guided spurs to the premiership s top eight. an ajax spokesman told bbc sport:  the coach must fit our profile - a coach who understands the dutch league and offensive and distinctive football.  we need to find a solution soon  so someone is in place for next season.  ronald koeman quit as ajax boss last week after their exit from the uefa cup. jol has been linked with the vacant post at ajax  with reports saying he has fallen out with spurs  sporting director frank arnesen. but in a statement on spurs  website  jol said:  i m happy here  i m not in discussion with anyone else  i don t want to go elsewhere.  ajax have enlisted the help of dutch legend johann cruyff  currently a consultant at barcelona  to help find a new head coach. cruyff has admitted he has been impressed by the way former rfc waalwijk coach jol has turned round spurs  fortunes since taking over from jacques santini. tonny bruins slot and ruud krol are currently in charge of ajax  who are third in the dutch league.
rich pickings for hi-tech thieves viruses  trojans and other malicious programs sent on to the net to catch you out are undergoing a subtle change.  the shift is happening as tech savvy criminals turn to technology to help them con people out of cash  steal valuable data or take over home pcs. viruses written to make headlines by infecting millions are getting rarer. instead programs are now crafted for directly criminal ends and firms are tightening up networks with defences to combat the new wave of malicious code.  the growing criminal use of malware has meant the end of the neat categorisation of different sorts of viruses and malicious programs. before now it has been broadly possible to name and categorise viruses by the method they use to spread and how they infect machines. but many of the viruses written by criminals roll lots of technical tricks together into one nasty package.   you cannot put them in to the neat little box that you used to   said pete simpson  head of the threat laboratory at security firm clearswift. now viruses are just as likely to spread by themselves like worms  or to exploit loopholes in browsers or hide in e-mail message attachments.  it s about outright criminality now   said mr simpson  explaining why this change has come about. he said many of the criminal programs came from eastern europe where cash-rich organised gangs can find a ready supply of technical experts that will crank out code to order. former virus writer marek strihavka  aka benny from the 29a virus writing group  recently quit the malware scene partly because it was being taken over by spyware writers  phishing gangs  and spammers who are more interested in money rather than the technology. no longer do virus writers produce programs to show off their technical prowess to rivals in the underground world of malware authors. not least  said paul king  principal security consultant at cisco  because the defences against such attacks are so common.  in many ways the least likely way to do it is e-mail because most of us have got anti-virus and firewalls now   he said. few of the malicious programs written by hi-tech thieves are cleverly written  many are much more pragmatic and use tried and tested techniques to infect machines or to trick users into installing a program or handing over important data.  if you think of criminals they do not do clever   said mr king   they just do what works.   as the tactics used by malicious programs change  said mr king  so many firms were changing the way they defend themselves. now many scan machines that connect to the corporate networks to ensure they have not been compromised while off the core network.  many will not let a machine connect and a worker get on with their job before the latest patches and settings have been uploaded. as well as using different tactics  criminals also use technology for reasons that are much more transparent.  the main motivation now is money   said gary stowell  spokesman for st bernard software. mr stowell said organised crime gangs were turning to computer crime because the risks of being caught were low and the rates of return were very high. with almost any phishing or spyware attack  criminals are guaranteed to catch some people out and have the contacts to exploit what they recover. so-called spyware was proving very popular with criminals because it allowed them to take over machines for their own ends  to steal key data from users or to hijack web browsing sessions to point people at particular sites. in some cases spyware was being written that searched for rival malicious programs on pcs it infects and then trying to erase them so it has sole ownership of that machine.
china  ripe  for media explosion asia is set to drive global media growth to 2008 and beyond  with china and india filling the two top spots  analysts have predicted.  japan  south korea and singapore will also be strong players  but china s demographics give it the edge  a media conference in london heard. the world s most populous country - population 1.3bn - now has about 200 million middle-class consumers. forty per cent fall in the key 16 to 35-year-old demographic. as a result  it is attracting huge foreign investment in media and communications  analysts told the financial times new media and broadcasting conference last week. interest in china among international media groups has surged in recent months after beijing issued rules allowing foreign investment in joint-venture television  radio and film production companies. news corporation  viacom and sony pictures are among the big names involved in joint ventures with chinese players.  more than 700 million chinese listen to 1 000 radio stations  while 200 tv stations broadcast 2 900 channels. china central television (cctv)  the state broadcaster  claims an audience of more than a billion people. of the country s 360 million households  100 million receive cable tv programmes. the rest could be a potential audience for satellite broadcasting which china plans to launch in 2006. the state administration of radio  film and television (sarft)  which regulates broadcasting  plans to move all programmes to digital by 2015. the continuing roll-out of new digital channels has boosted demand for quality content  creating significant opportunities for both chinese and foreign content providers.  but according to recent reports from china  the authorities have tightened controls over foreign investment in tv production joint ventures. it has limited most foreign companies to only one joint venture and banned the involvement of any found to be  unfriendly   according to reports. the sarft said:  there is a very strong ideological component to production of broadcast television programmes.  it added:  china must understand the political tendencies and background of overseas partners and prevent joint ventures or cooperation from bringing harmful foreign thinking or culture into our production sector.  according to the financial times  china correspondent  the new rules highlight the political sensitivities that surround foreign involvement in china s media sector. this is despite beijing s decision to open the state-dominated sector to international investment.  as well as traditional broadcasting  chinese and foreign entrepreneurs alike see fortunes waiting to be made in new media  like mobile services and online gaming. mobile games already account for 15% of revenues from china s 340 million mobile users.  online gaming sales are predicted to top a billion us dollars next year  according to the uk-based journal screen digest. the video market is also seen as a big opportunity  although piracy levels are still very high despite an anti-piracy drive during the past year. in the cinema industry the deployment of digital screens is being accelerated. this is not just to modernise venues but also to curb piracy and regulate distribution. li ruigang  president of the commercial broadcaster shanghai media group  told the conference that china s new media market  is already experiencing explosive growth . it was particularly strong in charged broadband services and mobile value-added services. leading china-watcher  and founder of the cga consultancy jeanne-marie gescher  agreed that the time was ripe for foreign media groups to tap china s huge media market potential.  china s media are now driven by investors who do not care how people consume media - they just want people to consume more of it   mrs gescher concluded.
briton wins short film oscar three of the five nominees in the live-action short film category at this year s oscars were british. for andrea arnold  who won the category  ashvin kumar and gary mckendry the past month has thrust them from relative obscurity into the limelight.  arnold s gritty drama wasp is about a single mother living on the breadline  while kumar s little terrorist follows a young pakistani muslim boy  who gets stuck on the wrong side of the heavily armed indian border. mckendry s entry  everything in this country must  forces british soldiers and catholics to challenge their relationship during the troubles in northern ireland. last week  the trio attended an official screening of all the nominated short films at the academy s headquarters in beverly hills.  i felt so privileged to have a thousand people watching my film on the biggest screen i ve ever seen   says arnold.  set in her native dartford  wasp tells the story of a young mum  who  unable to find a babysitter  leaves her four young daughters outside a pub while she s on a date. the image that sparked the film was that of a wasp crawling into a baby s mouth.  the other nominees said they made their films for this reason or that - they had something to say. but i just start with an image i can t shake off  work outwards from that and see what comes out   she explains.  since she presented children s tv shows number 73 and motormouth in the 1980s  arnold has kept a low profile and is having trouble adapting to this sudden onslaught of attention.  i m not interested in the publicity. it s not my personality. i m overwhelmed by all the fuss   she said.   it s all a bit like a beauty contest - all the films are great and so different.  but even though my film has won 30 awards worldwide (including one at sundance last month)  i d still be proud of it - even if it hadn t won any.  asked what the nomination means to her  arnold says she feels  flattered and honoured .  we ve all been overwhelmed by the response and can t get it in perspective yet. i m still reeling.   and she won t commit to an opinion of hollywood yet.  i m just in the middle of it  living moment to moment  day to day.  but despite her reservations about the academy awards and the media frenzy that surrounds it  she accepts that it has opened doors for her.  people will definitely listen to what i want to do now  and the phone didn t stop ringing for a week after i got nominated.  as for the future  arnold firmly believes that you often get a stronger vision of the world with short films.  you re left more to your own devices  without people interfering as much.  that said  she is currently working on a feature film with dogville and dancer in the dark director lars von trier.
india s deccan seals $1.8bn deal air deccan has ordered 30 airbus a320 planes in a $1.8bn (£931m) deal as india s first low-cost airline expands in the fast-growing domestic market.  air deccan was set up last year and wants to lure travellers away from the railway network and pricier rivals. the potential of the indian market has attracted attention at home and abroad. beer magnate vijay mallya recently set up kingfisher airlines  while uk entrepreneur richard branson has said he is keen to start a local operation.  the country has a population of more than a billion people and many observers feel that it is underserved by airlines. recently however  the booming economy has boosted personal spending power and helped swell the middle classes and the corporate sector. india s government has given its backing to cheaper and more accessible air travel.  the days of flying being a symbol of only maharajas or the rich are over   the minister for civil aviation praful patel said earlier. infrastructure is being built to handle the expected increase in demand and on tuesday  agence france presse reported that a group led by germany s siemens won the contract to build a private airport near bangalore. india s airports authority and the state government will own 13% each of the finished transport hub. for its part  air deccan  set up by army officer and silk farmer gorur gopinath  plans to increase its fleet to 60 aircraft within five years. to help finance the expansion the company may sell a 25% stake to an investor for about $50m. when it was set up the firm offered tickets that were 50% cheaper than other indian airlines. it said it was basing its business model on european firms such as ireland s ryanair.
hague  given up  his pm ambition former conservative leader william hague says he will not stand for the leadership again  having given up his ambition to be prime minister.  mr hague  43  told the daily telegraph he would now find a life dominated by politics too  boring  and unfulfilling. mr hague  who stepped down after his party s 2001 election defeat  does not rule out a return to the front bench. he also told the paper he hopes to remain mp for richmond  north yorks  and start a family with wife ffion. mr hague  who recently had published the biography of william pitt the younger  also said he wanted to continue writing books and speech-writing.  he told the newspaper:  i don t know whether i will ever go back on to the front  but don t rush me.  asked if he would stand for the leadership again  mr hague replied:  no. definitely not.  his determination to stay away from a central role will disappoint some senior conservative members  who say the party needs him. tim collins  the shadow education secretary  said last week it would be a  huge boost  to the party if mr hague returned to the front bench. mr hague became an mp at 27 and leader of the opposition at 36. he said:  i feel fortunate that  by the age of 40  i had crammed in an entire political career.  i had been in the cabinet and been leader of the party  so now i can branch out into other things...it is a very liberating feeling.  mr hague added that he may have misjudged his own ambition to be prime minister.  maybe i wasn t as driven by politics as i thought i was   he said.
cherie accused of attacking bush cherie blair has been accused of criticising george w bush s policies in a private address she gave during a united states lecture tour.  the prime minister s wife is said to have praised the supreme court for overruling the white house on the legal rights of guantanamo bay detainees. the tories said she broke a convention that british political figures do not act in a partisan way when abroad. but downing street said she was speaking in her capacity as a lawyer. it said she was not expressing political opinions. mrs blair s remarks are said to have been made in a speech to law students in massachusetts. she said the decision by the us supreme court to give legal protection to two britons held at guantanamo bay was a significant victory for human rights and the international rule of law. she also described the us legal code as an outdated grandfather clock and welcomed a decision to throw out a law backed by mr bush relating to sodomy in texas.  bbc news correspondent gary o donoghue said mrs blair was likely to face further calls for restraint  since the us election is imminent.  there have been some objections from people reasonably close to the bush administration about her making these comments in their backyard just two days before a presidential election   he said.  conservatives here too have made their feelings clear.  cherie booth has always regarded herself as having an independent career. she has continued to practise as a major human rights lawyer in the courts.  it s not unusual for her to make these sorts of criticisms clear but it can be embarrassing.
foxx and swank take actors awards jamie foxx and hilary swank have won the screen actors guild awards for best male and female film actors  boosting their oscars hopes this month.  foxx s portrayal of late soul-singer ray charles in ray had already earned him a prestigious golden globe award. swank triumphed for playing a gutsy female boxer in million dollar baby. modest wine country comedy sideways knocked out favourites million dollar baby and the aviator by taking the top prize for best cast performance.  the screen actors guild (sag) represents us film and tv actors. its winners often go on to win oscars. in other nominations  cate blanchett triumphed as the best supporting actress for her role as katharine hepburn in the aviator. veteran actor morgan freeman took the best supporting actor award for playing a prize-fighter turned gym manager in million dollar baby.   thank you for ray charles for just living so complex and so interesting  and making us all just come together   said foxx  accepting his award in los angeles on saturday.  he also praised the film director:  thank you for taylor hackford for taking a chance with an african-american film. taylor  you re my director of the year.  swank  too  was full of praise for her director and co-star clint eastwood.  i bow down to you   swank said to the 74-year-old eastwood.  you are a talent beyond compare. if i m half the person you are and half the talent you are when i m 74  i will know that i ve accomplished something great.   both foxx and swank are now considered to be among the favourites to get oscars - the hollywood s ultimate prize. however  swank has to overcome a strong challenge from annette bening  a nominee for the theatre farce being julia. meanwhile  ballots for oscars - the hollywood s top honours - were mailed earlier this week to members of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences. the voting is due to end on 22 february - five days before the ceremony.
india s maruti sees profits jump india s biggest carmaker maruti has reported a sharp increase in quarterly profit after a booming economy and low interest rates boosted demand.  net profit surged 70% to 2.39bn rupees ($54.98m; £29.32m) in the last three months of 2004 compared with 1.41bn rupees a year earlier. total sales were 30.1bn rupees  up 27% from the same 2004 period. maruti accounts for half of india s domestic car sales  luring consumers with cheap  fuel-efficient vehicles.  demand in india also has been driven by the poor state of public transport and the very low level of car ownership  analysts said.  figures show that only eight people per thousand are car owners. maruti beat market expectations despite an increase in raw materials costs. the company  majority-owned by japan s suzuki  said an increase in steel and other raw material prices was partially offset by cost cutting. sales in the fiscal third quarter  including vans and utility vehicles  rose by 17.8% to 136.069 units. maruti is not the only company benefiting as indian s economic growth gives consumer greater spending power. utility vehicle and tractor maker mahindra has reported a 52% rise in net profit during the last three months of 2004. profit was 1.33bn rupees compared with 874.2m rupees a year earlier.
japanese banking battle at an end japan s sumitomo mitsui financial has withdrawn its takeover offer for rival bank ufj holdings  enabling the latter to merge with mitsubishi tokyo.  sumitomo bosses told counterparts at ufj of its decision on friday  clearing the way for it to conclude a 3 trillion yen ($29bn) deal with mitsubishi. the deal would create the world s biggest bank with assets of about 189 trillion yen ($1.8 trillion). sumitomo s exit ends the most high profile fight in japanese bank history.  ufj holdings  japan s fourth-largest bank  has been at the centre of a fierce bid battle over the last year. sumitomo  japan s third-largest bank  tabled a higher offer for ufj than its rival  valuing the company at $35bn.  however  ufj s management was known to prefer the offer from mitsubishi tokyo financial group (mtfg)  japan s second-largest bank. concerns were also raised about sumitomo s ability to absorb ufj and the former has now admitted defeat.  we believe the market and most investors accept a ufj-mtfg merger   sumitomo said in a statement.  given the ongoing integration of ufj and mtfg operations  persisting with our proposal may not be in the best interests of our shareholders or ufj s.   mitsubishi s takeover of ufj - which will be japan s largest-ever takeover deal - will still have to be approved by shareholders of the two firms. however  this is expected to be a formality. sumitomo may now turn its attention to deepening its ties with daiwa securities  another japanese financial firm. the two are set to merge their venture capital operations and there has been speculation that this could lead to a full-blown merger. japanese banks are increasingly seeking alliances to boost profits.
blair says uk tsunami aid to soar tony blair has predicted the british government will eventually give  hundreds of millions  of pounds in aid to countries hit by the tsunami.  the prime minister was speaking publicly for the first time since returning from his holiday in egypt. mr blair insisted he had been  intimately involved  in  all decisions at all times  despite being abroad. he was speaking before the uk joins a three-minute silence at noon across the eu for the estimated 150 000 dead.  the foreign office says 41 britons are now confirmed to have died in the tsunami which struck south asia on boxing day  with 158 others missing. asked about criticism that he did not cut short his holiday  mr blair told bbc radio 4 s today programme:  i don t think this is a situation in which the british people need me to articulate what they feel.   i think they feel - as we all do - shock  horror  and absolute solidarity with those people who have lost their lives.  the important thing was action and not words  he said  adding that of the £50m given by the government so far only  six or seven million  had been spent. it would become easier in the coming weeks to assess just how much money would have to be put in.  my estimate is we will need to spend from government several hundred million pounds. so we will far and away more than match the generosity of the british people   he said. asked whether he had not returned to work immediately because he was under doctors orders to rest  mr blair said there was also a story he had been away for plastic surgery.  as you can see unfortunately i am still looking the same as i always did   he joked.  the prime minister took personal charge of the uk s response on tuesday  chairing a meeting of the emergency committee of ministers that has convened daily since boxing day. he also spoke on the telephone to us president george bush  and the presidents of sri lanka and indonesia. chancellor gordon brown earlier backed a plan to freeze the foreign debts of all the affected nations.  mr brown  who was not at the downing street meeting  says he has been in  intensive talks  with other g8 finance ministers. germany proposed a freeze last week and canada has begun its own moratorium. the chancellor said the plan would initially save the most affected countries about $3bn (£1.58bn) in repayments. tory leader michael howard also backed the proposals but said ministers had been  playing catch-up  with public donations.  foreign secretary jack straw is to visit thailand and indonesia this week. during his trip  mr straw will represent the g8 at the international conference called in jakarta  indonesia on thursday. on friday  he will visit the thai beach resort of phuket  where british families are still searching for relatives.  international development secretary hilary benn will also visit aceh in indonesia  as well as sri lanka. the british public has now pledged £76m in aid with emergency supplies from the british government starting to arrive in the region on three raf flights in a joint operation with scandinavian countries. two ships - the royal fleet auxiliary ship diligence and frigate hms chatham - have arrived in the disaster area. a second royal fleet auxiliary vessel  the bayleaf  is also being sent. uk charities have also begun chartering planes to deliver aid.    - a bbc news special: asia remembered  including the three-minutes silence  will be shown on bbc one and bbc news 24 from 1130 to 1215 gmt on wednesday.
qatar and shell in $6bn gas deal shell has signed a $6bn (£3.12bn) deal with the middle eastern sheikhdom of qatar to supply liquid natural gas (lng) to north america and europe.  the uk-dutch group will own 30% of the project  with qatar s state oil firm owning the rest. the agreement is the latest in a string of deals reached by qatar  which is trying to make itself a regional leader in natural gas. us oil giant exxonmobil signed up for a $12.8bn deal earlier on sunday. france s total is expected to join the exxonmobil scheme  dubbed qatargas-2  on monday  taking 5 million tonnes of lng a year. exxonmobil will be taking some 15 million tonnes each year for 25 years from the end of 2007 under the deal. shell s agreement  under the name qatargas-4  foresees the building of new facilities to handle 1.4 billion cubic feet of gas  and 7.8 million tonnes of lng each year from 2011 onwards.
willis sues over movie  injury  actor bruce willis is suing revolution studios over an injury he said he suffered while making tears of the sun.  willis is seeking medical expenses after he said he was hit in the head by a firework during the filming of the 2002 movie  produced by the firm. the lawsuit said the star has endured mental and physical injuries as a result of the alleged incident.  we are not able to comment on pending litigation   revolution studios spokesman sean dudas said.  in tears of the sun willis plays a us military commander who disobeys orders to try and help save a doctor and patients trapped in the nigerian jungle. directed by antoine fuqua  the film was poorly received by critics and did not perform strongly at the box office. according to the lawsuit  the injury was suffered during the firing of explosions as part of a special effect. the explosions  known as squibs  were intended to  simulate the appearance of bullets striking the ground . the lawsuit said willis has endured  extreme mental  physical and emotional pain and suffering.  there were no specific details on the injuries. while willis does not seek specific monetary damages  the lawsuit noted that the star  was required to and did employ physicians and other medical personnel . it stated he will incur additional future medical expenses. the lawsuit said revolution studios and special effects foreman joe pancake  had a duty to willis to ensure that the squibs were inspected  set up  placed and detonated in a safe manner  and to employ technicians who were trained and competent in their use .
blair ready to call election tony blair seems certain to end weeks of phoney war on monday and announce there will be a general election on 5 may.  the date has been pencilled into the diaries of politicians and political journalists for many months and  despite occasional panics that the prime minister was on the verge of calling a snap poll  it has not shifted. over the weeks  there have been any number of signs that 050505 was going to be the day mr blair would go for an historic third term. and the calling of a special political cabinet meeting has only added to the belief that the announcement is imminent. the prime minister and his campaign boss alan milburn have already insisted the election will be fought on the economy and what they claim is a stark choice between labour s stability and investment against tory cuts and boom and bust.  and chancellor gordon brown has stepped into the front line of the campaign - to the relief of many of his supporters in westminster - to underline that economic message. and it is certain one of the big arguments at the centre of the election battle will be around the big parties  tax and spend policies.  during the phoney campaign  labour got into trouble over its central claim that michael howard was planning £35 bn cuts in public services. the prime minister found himself struggling to explain how a smaller  slower increase in spending planned by the tories compared to labour s plans was a cut. and it looked like the labour campaign - which was already being criticised for being thrown into defensive mode by mr howard on issues such as immigration and health - was on the rocks. then deputy conservative chairman howard flight was reported to have suggested mr howard was secretly planning even bigger  cuts .  he was sacked for his gaffe  but the damage had been done and the faltering labour campaign was back on track. a second central argument will be over taxation  with the tories claiming the chancellor has to fill a black hole at the centre of his finances and will be forced to raise taxes if labour wins again. mr brown slaps that aside  claiming his forecasts are accurate and that previous claims of looming economic disaster have proved inaccurate. as usual  the liberal democrats will have to fight to get their voice heard over the sounds of battle between the two big parties. but leader charles kennedy believes he has set out a distinctive manifesto with plans for a tax rise for the wealthiest to finance extra spending and the abolition of the council tax in favour of a local income tax. other issues are certain to play a part - immigration and asylum  the war on iraq  law and order and education  for example. but  as ever  it will be the economy that will almost certainly decide the outcome. and  whatever that outcome  2005 is set to be a far more lively  even bitter campaign than 2001 s non-event.
iaaf will contest greek decision the international association of athletics federations will appeal against the acquittal of greek athletes kostas kenteris and katerina thanou.  the high-profile duo were cleared of doping offences by the greek athletics federation (segas) last month. now the iaaf will lodge an appeal with the court of arbitration for sport (cas) and has suspended both athletes. an iaaf statement said:  the doping review board concluded that the decision is erroneous.  the statement continued:  both athletes  cases will be refered to arbitration before the cas. the decision in both cases will be final and binding.   segas said the iaaf appeal was  expected  and  understandable.   now we are going to await the final result  which we cannot prejudge   said segas chairman vassilis sevastis. kenteris  who won olympic 200m gold at the 2000 olympics  and thanou were suspended by the iaaf last december after failing to take routine drugs tests before the athens games. however  the independent tribunal overturned those bans  clearing the sprinters of avoiding tests in tel aviv  chicago and athens and failing to notify anti-doping officials of their whereabouts before the olympics.  kenteris  lawyer gregory ioannidis described the iaaf s decision as  not unexpected  but told bbc sport he did not expect the organisation to take action so quickly.  the iaaf s timing is extremely surprising and it creates concerns and questions   said ioannidis.  the iaaf has not yet received the complete file of proceedings which include statements  testimonies  the closing speeches of defence counsel... and nine audio tapes.   we have the evidence and it is time the world discovered the truth.  kenteris and thanou dramatically withdrew from last summer s olympics after missing a drugs test at the olympic village on 12 august. the pair then spent four days in a hospital  claiming they had been injured in a motorcycle crash. it was the international olympic committee who demanded the iaaf investigate the affair. thanou and kenteris still face a criminal trial later this year for allegedly avoiding the test and then faking a motorcycle accident
brookside actress keaveney dies actress anna keaveney  who appeared in brookside  my family and a touch of frost  has died of lung cancer aged 55.  keaveney  who played brookside s marie jackson when the channel 4 soap began in 1982  died on saturday. born in runcorn  cheshire  she also starred in numerous films including 1989 s shirley valentine. she played nellie in mike leigh s latest film vera drake  which won the golden lion prize for best film at this year s venice film festival.  and most recently she appeared alongside richard wilson in itv s king of fridges and with martin clunes in doc martin. other tv appearances included the part of matron in itv drama footballers  wives and a cameo role as tom farrell s mother sheila in bbc comedy gimme gimme gimme. keaveney s career also included stage performances in neaptide for the national theatre  private lives and the rise and fall of little voice. the actress died in hospital. her agent barry brown said:  anna was due to have had another operation on friday but unfortunately she was too weak.
steady job growth continues in us the us created fewer jobs than expected in december  but analysts said that the dip in hiring was not enough to derail the world s biggest economy.  according to labor department figures  157 000 new jobs were added last month. that took 2004 s total to 2.2 million  the best showing in five years. job creation was one of last year s main concerns for the us economy. while worries still remain  the conditions are set for steady growth in 2005  analysts said. the unemployment rate stayed at 5.4% in december  and about 200 000 jobs will need to be created each month if that figure is to drop.   it was a respectable report   said michael moran  analyst at daiwa securities.   payroll growth in december was a little lighter than the consensus forecast  but we had upward revisions to the prior two months and an increase in manufacturing employment.   manufacturing is a cyclical area of the economy and if it s showing job growth  it s a good indication that the economy is on a solid growth track.  that means that the federal reserve is likely to continue its policy of raising interest rates. the fed lifted borrowing costs five times last year to 2.25%  citing evidence the us economic recovery was becoming more robust.  job creation was one of last year s main concerns for the us economy  and proved to be a main topic of debate in the us presidential election. while demand for workers is far from booming  the conditions are set for steady growth.  overall  compared to the previous year it looks great  it just keeps going stronger and stronger and i expect that to be the case  in 2005  said kurt karl  economist at swiss re in new york. meanwhile  economists cautioned against reading too much into data from the federal reserve showing an unexpected $8.7bn drop in consumer debt in november. a fall in consumer spending  which makes up about two-thirds of all us economic activity  could help limit the extent of any future interest rate rises. but economists said there could be a number of reasons for a fall in the borrowing  which include credit cards and personal loans  while noting that such figures can vary on a month-to-month basis.
blair rejects iraq advice calls tony blair has rejected calls for the publication of advice on the legality of the iraq war amid growing calls for an investigation.  the prime minister told his monthly press conference the matter had been dealt with by the attorney general. earlier  conservative mp michael mates joined calls for a probe into claims lord goldsmith s statement to parliament was drawn up at number 10. mr blair said the statement was a  fair summary  of lord goldsmith s opinion.   that s what he (lord goldsmith) said and that s what i say. he has dealt with this time and time and time again   mr blair told his monthly news conference in downing street. he refused to answer further questions on the issue  saying it had been dealt with  literally scores of times and the position has not changed . lord goldsmith has denied being  leaned on  and says the words written were his.  the government refuses to publish his advice on the legality of the war - saying such papers have always been kept confidential. mr mates  who is a member of the commons intelligence and security committee and was part of the butler inquiry into pre-war intelligence  told the bbc on friday:  that  as a general rule  is right  but it s not an absolute rule.  he said there had been other occasions when advice had been published  most recently regarding prince charles s marriage plans. the government could not pick and choose when to use the convention  he said.  mr mates added:  we discovered that there were two or three occasions in the past when law officers  advice to the government has been published.  and this may be one of those special occasions... when it would be in the public interest to see the advice which the attorney general gave to the prime minister.  this is argument was rejected by mr blair  who said:  firstly  we haven t broken the precedent  and secondly peter goldsmith has made his statement and i have got absolutely nothing to add to it.  in a book published this week  philippe sands qc  a member of cherie blair s matrix chambers  says lord goldsmith warned tony blair on 7 march 2003 that the iraq war could be illegal without a second un resolution sanctioning military action.  but a short statement about lord goldsmith s position was presented in a written parliamentary answer on 17 march 2003 - just before a crucial commons vote on the military action. mr sands  book suggests it was actually written by home office minister lord falconer and downing street adviser baroness morgan. former minister clare short  who resigned from the government over the iraq war  said it was the same statement that was earlier shown to the cabinet as it discussed military action. she told the bbc the full advice should have been attached  according to the ministerial code.   my view is we need the house of lords to set up a special committee  summon the attorney  get all the papers out  look at exactly what happened   she said. the conservatives and liberal democrats say they want the publication of the full legal advice given by the attorney general. on thursday  lord goldsmith said his statement had not been  written by or at number 10 .  in my parliamentary answer on march 17 2003  i explained my genuinely held independent view  that military action was lawful under the existing security council resolutions   he said.
melzer shocks agassi second seed andre agassi suffered a comprehensive defeat by jurgen melzer in the quarter-finals of the sap open.  agassi was often bamboozled by the austrian s drop shots in san jose  losing 6-3 6-1. defending champion and top seed andy roddick rallied to beat sweden s thomas enqvist 3-6 7-6 (8-6) 7-5. but unseeded cyril saulnier beat the fourth seed vincent spadea 6-2 6-4 and tommy haas overcame eighth seed max mirnyi 6-7 (2-7) 7-6 (7-3) 6-2. melzer has now beaten agassi in two of their three meetings.   i had a good game plan and i executed it perfectly   he said.  it s always tough to come out to play andre.  i didn t want him to play his game. he makes you run like a dog all over the court.  and agassi  who was more than matched for power by his opponent s two-handed backhand  said melzer was an example of several players on the tour willing to take their chances against him.  a lot more guys are capable of it now   said the american.  he played much better than me. that s what he did both times.  i had opportunities to loosen myself up   agassi added.  but i didn t convert on the big points.
china aviation seeks rescue deal scandal-hit jet fuel supplier china aviation oil has offered to repay its creditors $220m (£117m) of the $550m it lost on trading in oil futures.  the firm said it hoped to pay $100m now and another $120m over eight years. with assets of $200m and liabilities totalling $648m  it needs creditors  backing for the offer to avoid going into bankruptcy. the trading scandal is the biggest to hit singapore since the $1.2bn collapse of barings bank in 1995. chen jiulin  chief executive of china aviation oil (cao)  was arrested by at changi airport by singapore police on 8 december. he was returning from china  where he had headed when cao announced its trading debacle in late-november. the firm had been betting heavily on a fall in the price of oil during october  but prices rose sharply instead.  among the creditors whose backing cao needs for its restructuring plan are banking giants such as barclay s capital and sumitomo mitsui  as well as south korean firm sk energy. of the immediate payment  the firm - china s biggest jet fuel supplier - said it would be paying $30m out of its own resources. the rest would come from its parent company  china aviation oil holding company in beijing. the holding company  owned by the chinese government  holds most of cao s singapore-listed shares. it cut its holding from 75% to 60% on 20 october.
houllier praises benitez regime former liverpool manager gerard houllier has praised the work of his anfield successor rafael benitez.  houllier was angry at reports that he has been critical of benitez since the spaniard took over at liverpool. but houllier told bbc sport:  in private and in public  i have stressed i believe rafa is doing a good job. he is the right man at the right place.  rafa is a good coach and a good man. i ve spoken to him since he has been at liverpool and never criticised him.  houllier also revealed he is now ready to return to the game after leaving liverpool in may following six years at anfield.  the former france boss has been linked with a host of jobs and pulled out of the race to succeed mark hughes as wales national coach. he has been working for uefa  covering the premiership for french television and also coaching in brazil with national coach carlos alberto perreira. houllier said:  if a good club comes up at the right time then yes  i am ready to come back.  it has been interesting to watch games from a different perspective and i have learned things.  i have been involved in football since leaving liverpool and my batteries are recharged.   houllier has been impressed with the quality in the premiership after watching as a pundit - particularly with jose mourinho s work at leaders chelsea. he said:  chelsea are doing very well. they have some very good creative players in damien duff and arjen robben and didier drogba showed he can change the face of a game when he came on against newcastle.  they have got a good team spirit and are strong mentally. they have shown they can cope with all the pressure put on them because of the expectations and cope well with jose s principles.  jose had results before he came to chelsea and i think he will have an impact in the premiership because he manages his team very cleverly.  and houllier  away from his brief at liverpool  has been hugely impressed with the premiership. he said:  it is a very exciting league. it is entertaining  goals are scored and teams are always trying to win.  it has been very interesting to watch the game from a different perspective.  games switch from end-to-end and there is more pace to the premiership than other leagues. it is a very good product.
ultra fast wi-fi nears completion ultra high speed wi-fi connections moved closer to reality on thursday when intel said it would list standards for the technology later this year.  intel is developing ultra-wideband technology (uwb) which would allow fast data transfer but with low power needs. uwb is tipped to be used for wireless transfer of video in the home or office and for use in wireless usb devices which need low power consumption. a rival uwb standard is being developed by motorola and chip firm freescale. at the mobile phone conference 3gsm in cannes last month samsung demonstrated a phone using uwb technology from freescale.  at a press conference on thursday intel announced that two uwb groups  wimedia alliance and multi-band ofdm alliance had merged to support the technology. uwb makes it possible to stream huge amounts of data through the air over short distances. one of the more likely uses of uwb is to make it possible to send dvd quality video images wirelessly to tv screens or to let people beam music to media players around their home.  the technology has the potential to transmit hundreds of megabits of data per second.  consumer electronics companies want uwb to replace cables and simplify set-up   jeff ravencraft  technology strategist at intel and chairman of the wireless usb promoter group  told technology site zdnet.  thirty percent of consumer electronics returns are because the consumer couldn t set up the equipment.  the first products using uwb technology from intel are due to hit the market later this year. initially they will be products using wireless usb 2.0 connections. uwb could also be used to create so-called personal area networks that let a person s gadgets quickly and easily swap data amongst themselves. the technology works over a range up to 10 metres and uses billions of short radio pulses every second to carry data. intel says the benefit of uwb is that it does not interfere with other wi-fi technologies already in use such as wi-fi  wimax and mobile phone networks.
mexican in us send $16bn home mexican labourers living in the us sent a record $16.6bn (£8.82bn) home last year.  the bank of mexico said that remittances grew 24% last year and now represent the country s second-biggest source of income after oil. better records and greater prosperity of mexican expatriates in the us are the main reasons behind the increase. about 10 million mexicans live in the us  where there are 16 million citizens of mexican origin. remittances now represent more than 2% of the country s gdp  according to the bank of mexico s figures. last year  there were 50.9 million transactions  with an average value of $327 per remittance  the bank said. according to standard & poor s  which has recently upgraded mexico s sovereign debt rating  the rise in remittances helps protect the mexican economy against a potential fall in the international oil prices.  the growth in remittances has sparked fierce competition between banks. bank of america announced last week that it planned to eliminate transfer fees for some customers. remittance charges are estimated to have dropped by between 50 and 60%  reports from the us treasury and the inter-american development bank have said. the inter-american development bank estimates that remittances to latin america and the caribbean reached $45bn in 2004.
indonesia  declines debt freeze  indonesia no longer needs the debt freeze offered by the paris club group of creditors  economics minister aburizal bakrie has reportedly said.  indonesia  which originally accepted the debt moratorium offer  owes the paris club about $48bn (£25.5bn). mr bakrie told the bisnis indonesia newspaper that a $1.7bn donors  aid package meant that the debt moratorium was unnecessary. this aid comes on top of a previously-pledged $3.4bn package. most of this  normal aid  would be used to finance the country s budget deficit. the indonesian economics minister explained that the money - $1.2bn in grants and $500m in soft loans - was for the rebuilding of aceh province  which was badly hit by the tsunami of 26 december. nevertheless  one of mr bakrie s deputies  mahendra siregar  told afp news agency that indonesia was still considering the offer by the paris club of rich creditor nations to temporarily suspend its debt payments.  what is true is that we are still discussing... the paris club decision to find out more details such as how much of our debt will be subject to a moratorium. that s how far we are at this stage   said mr siregar.  the 19 member countries of the paris club are owed about $5bn this year in debt repayments by nations affected by the indian ocean tsunami. indonesia  sri lanka and the seychelles accepted the paris club offer  which was criticised by some aid groups as being too little. thailand and india have however declined the offer  with thailand prefering to keep up with its payments while india said it would prefer to rely on its own resources rather than on international aid. putting off payments may lower a country s rating among financial organisations  making it more expensive and more difficult for them to borrow money in the future  analysts said. separately  the indonesian government has said it will announce monthly how much it has received in foreign donations and how it has spent the money. welfare minister alwi shihab told ap news agency that this announcement should allay suspicion of official corruption in relief operations.
conservative backing for id cards the tories are to back controversial government plans to introduce id cards.  the shadow cabinet revealed its support ahead of next week s commons vote on a bill to introduce compulsory id. the decision follows a  tough meeting  where some senior tories argued vociferously against the move  party sources told the bbc. the bill  which ministers claim will tackle crime  terrorism and illegal immigration  is expected to be opposed by the liberal democrats.  they have said the scheme is  deeply flawed  and a waste of money. sources within the conservative party told the bbc michael howard has always been in favour of id cards  and tried to introduce them when he was home secretary. the party has been  agnostic  on the issue until now but had now decided to come off the fence  the tory source said. despite giving their backing to id cards  the conservatives insisted they would hold ministers to account over the precise purpose of the scheme.  they said they would also press labour over whether objectives could be met and whether the home office would deliver them. and they pledged to assess the cost effectiveness of id cards and whether people s privacy would be properly protected.  it is important to remember that this bill will take a decade to come into full effect   a spokesman said.  it will do nothing to solve the immediate problems of rising crime and uncontrolled immigration.   lib dem home affairs spokesman mark oaten said:  this has all the signs of michael howard overruling colleagues  concerns over id cards.  the tories should have the courage to try and change public opinion not follow it.  the new chairman of the bar council  guy mansfield qc warned there was a real risk that people on the  margins of society  would be driven into the hands of extremists.  what is going to happen to young asian men when there has been a bomb gone off somewhere  they are going to be stopped. if they haven t [id cards] they are going to be detained.
double win for sea inside spanish movie the sea inside has been named best picture and star javier bardem best actor at the bangkok international film festival.  based on the true story of a paralysed man s battle to end his life  the sea inside was best foreign language film at the 2005 golden globe awards. annette bening and ana geislerova shared the best actress award at the bangkok festival. this year s event was scaled down following the asian tsunami disaster.  falling down and the phantom of the opera director joel schumacher won a lifetime achievement award while hong kong director wong kar-wai was honoured for promoting asian cinema.  it s a great honour  i want to share this honour with my thai colleagues   wong said. french writer christophe barratie and korean writer park chan-chook shared the best screenplay award for les choristes and old boy respectively. now in its third year  the bangkok international film festival is donating profits from ticket sales to the tsunami relief fund.